TAX YEAR

2022

1040 (and
1040-SR)

INSTRUCTIONS

R

Including the instructions for
Schedules 1 through 3

2022 Changes
• Form 1040 has new lines.
• Schedule 1 has new lines.

• Filing status name changed from
Qualifying widow(er) to Qualifiying
surviving spouse.

For details on these and other
changes, see What’s New in these
instructions.

Future Developments
See IRS.gov and IRS.gov/Forms, and for the latest information about developments related to Forms 1040 and
1040-SR and their instructions, such as legislation enacted after they were published, go to IRS.gov/Form1040.
Free File is the fast, safe, and free way to prepare and e-file your taxes. See IRS.gov/FreeFile.
Pay Online. It’s fast, simple, and secure. Go to IRS.gov/Payments.
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov
Jan 20, 2023

Cat. No. 24811V

Table of Contents
Contents
Department
of the
Treasury
Internal
Revenue
Service

Page

What's New . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Filing Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Do You Have To File? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
When and Where Should You File? . . . . . 8
Line Instructions for Forms 1040 and
1040-SR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Filing Status . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Name and Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Social Security Number (SSN) . . . . . . . 14
Dependents, Qualifying Child for
Child Tax Credit, and Credit for
Other Dependents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Total Income and Adjusted Gross
Income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Tax and Credits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Payments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Refund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Amount You Owe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58

-2-

Contents

Page

Sign Your Return . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Assemble Your Return . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
2022 Tax Table . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
General Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Refund Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Instructions for Schedule 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Instructions for Schedule 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Instructions for Schedule 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
Tax Topics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
Disclosure, Privacy Act, and Paperwork
Reduction Act Notice . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
Major Categories of Federal Income and
Outlays for Fiscal Year 2021 . . . . . . . 108
Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110

Form 1040 and 1040-SR
Helpful Hints
For 2022, you will use Form 1040 or, if you were born before January 2, 1958, you have the option to use
Form 1040-SR.
You may only need to file Form 1040 or 1040-SR and none of the numbered schedules, Schedules 1 through
3. However, if your return is more complicated (for example, you claim certain deductions or credits or owe
additional taxes), you will need to complete one or more of the numbered schedules. Below is a general guide
to which schedule(s) you will need to file based on your circumstances. See the instructions for the schedules
for more information.
If you e-file your return, the software you use will generally determine which schedules you need.

IF YOU...

THEN USE...

Have additional income, such as business or farm income or
loss, unemployment compensation, or prize or award money.

Schedule 1, Part I

Have any adjustments to income, such as student loan
interest, self-employment tax, or educator expenses.

Schedule 1, Part II

Owe alternative minimum tax (AMT) or need to make an
excess advance premium tax credit repayment.

Schedule 2, Part I

Owe other taxes, such as self-employment tax, household
employment taxes, additional tax on IRAs or other qualified
retirement plans and tax-favored accounts.

Schedule 2, Part II

Can claim a nonrefundable credit (other than the child tax credit
or the credit for other dependents), such as the foreign tax credit,
education credits, or general business credit.

Schedule 3, Part I

Can claim a refundable credit (other than the earned income
credit, American opportunity credit, or additional child tax credit),
such as the net premium tax credit or qualified sick and family
leave credits from Schedule H.
Have other payments, such as an amount paid with a request for
an extension to file or excess social security tax withheld.

-3-

Schedule 3, Part II

The Taxpayer Advocate Service Is Here To Help You
What is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that helps
taxpayers and protects taxpayer rights. TAS strives to ensure that every taxpayer is treated fairly and that you know and
understand your rights under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights.
What can TAS do for you?
TAS can help you if your tax problem is causing a financial difficulty, you've tried and been unable to resolve your issue with
the IRS, or you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure just isn't working as it should. And the service is free. If you
qualify for TAS assistance, you will be assigned to one advocate who will work with you throughout the process and will do
everything possible to resolve your issue. TAS can help you if:
• Your problem is causing a financial difficulty for you, your family, or your business.
• You face (or your business is facing) an immediate threat of adverse action.
• You’ve tried to contact the IRS but no one has responded, or the IRS hasn’t responded by the date promised.
How can you reach TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. To find your advocate’s number:
• Go to TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/contact-us;
• Download Publication 1546, Taxpayer Advocate Service - We Are Here to Help You. If you do not have Internet access,
you can call the IRS toll free at 800-TAX-FORM (800-829-3676) and ask for a copy of Publication 1546;
• Check your local directory; or
• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
How can you learn about your taxpayer rights?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. The TAS website
TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov can help you understand what these rights mean to you and how they apply. These are your rights.
Know them. Use them.
How else does the Taxpayer Advocate Service help taxpayers?
TAS works to resolve large-scale problems that affect many taxpayers. If you know of one of these broad issues, please report it
to TAS at IRS.gov/SAMS. Be sure not to include any personal taxpayer information.
Low Income Taxpayer Clinics Help Taxpayers
Low Income Taxpayer Clinics (LITCs) are independent from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Taxpayer Advocate
Service (TAS). LITCs represent individuals whose income is below a certain level and who need to resolve tax problems with
the IRS. LITCs can represent taxpayers in audits, appeals, and tax collection disputes before the IRS and in court. In addition,
LITCs can provide information about taxpayer rights and responsibilities in different languages for individuals who speak
English as a second language. Services are offered for free or a small fee. For more information or to find an LITC near you, see
the LITC page at TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/LITCMap or IRS Publication 4134, Low Income Taxpayer Clinic List. This
publication is available online at IRS.gov/Forms-Pubs or by calling the IRS toll free at 800-TAX-FORM (800-829-3676).

Suggestions for Improving the IRS
Taxpayer Advocacy Panel
Taxpayers have an opportunity to provide direct feedback to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) through the Taxpayer Advocacy
Panel (TAP). The TAP is a Federal Advisory Committee comprised of an independent panel of citizen volunteers who listen to
taxpayers, identify taxpayers' systemic issues, and make suggestions for improving IRS customer service. Contact TAP at
ImproveIRS.org.

-4-

Affordable Care Act — What You Need To Know
Requirement To Reconcile Advance Payments of the Premium Tax Credit
The premium tax credit helps pay premiums for health insurance purchased from the Marketplace. Eligible
individuals may have advance payments of the premium tax credit made on their behalf directly to the insurance
company.
If you or a family member enrolled in health insurance through the Marketplace and advance payments of the
premium tax credit were made to your insurance company to reduce your monthly premium payment, you must attach
Form 8962 to your return to reconcile (compare) the advance payments with your premium tax credit for the year.
The Marketplace is required to send Form 1095-A by January 31, 2023, listing the advance payments and other
information you need to complete Form 8962.
1. You will need Form 1095-A from the Marketplace.
2. Complete Form 8962 to claim the credit and to reconcile your advance credit payments.
3. Include Form 8962 with your Form 1040, Form 1040-SR, or Form 1040-NR. (Don’t include Form 1095-A.)

Health Coverage Reporting
If you or someone in your family was an employee in 2022, the employer may be required to send you Form
1095-C. Part II of Form 1095-C shows whether your employer offered you health insurance coverage and, if
so, information about the offer. You should receive Form 1095-C by early March 2023. This information may be
relevant if you purchased health insurance coverage for 2022 through the Health Insurance Marketplace and
wish to claim the premium tax credit on Schedule 3, line 9. However, you don’t need to wait to receive this form
to file your return. You may rely on other information received from your employer. If you don’t wish to claim the
premium tax credit for 2022, you don’t need the information in Part II of Form 1095-C. For more information on
who is eligible for the premium tax credit, see the Instructions for Form 8962.
Reminder: Health care coverage. If you need health care coverage, go to www.HealthCare.gov to learn about
health insurance options for you and your family, how to buy health insurance, and how you might qualify to get
financial assistance to buy health insurance.

-5-

What's New
Due date of return. File Form 1040 or
1040-SR by April 18, 2023. The due
date is April 18, instead of April 15, because of the Emancipation Day holiday
in the District of Columbia – even if you
don’t live in the District of Columbia.
Filing status name changed to qualifying surviving spouse. The filing status
qualifying widow(er) is now called qualifying surviving spouse. The rules for
the filing status have not changed. The
same rules that applied for qualifying
widow(er) apply to qualifying surviving
spouse. See Qualifying surviving spouse,
later.
Standard deduction amount increased. For 2022, the standard deduction amount has been increased for all
filers. The amounts are:
• Single or Married filing separately—$12,950.
• Married filing jointly or Qualifying surviving spouse—$25,900.
• Head of household—$19,400.
New lines 1a through 1z on Form
1040 and 1040-SR. This year line 1 is
expanded and there are new lines 1a
through 1z. Some amounts that in prior
years were reported on Form 1040 and
Form 1040-SR are now reported on
Schedule 1.
• Scholarship and fellowship grants
that were not reported to you on Form
W-2 are now reported on Schedule 1,
line 8r.
• Pension or annuity from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan or a
nongovernmental section 457 plan are
now reported on Schedule 1, line 8t.
• Wages earned while incarcerated
are now reported on Schedule 1, line 8u.
New line 6c on Form 1040 and
1040-SR. A checkbox was added on
line 6c. Taxpayers who elect to use the
lump-sum election method for their benefits will check this box. See Line 6c,
later.
Nontaxable Medicaid waiver payments on Schedule 1. For 2021, nontaxable amounts of Medicaid waiver
payments reported on Form 1040, line 1,

For information about any additional changes to the 2022 tax law or any other developments affecting Form 1040 or 1040-SR or the instructions, go to IRS.gov/
Form1040.
were excluded from income on Schedule
1, line 8z. For 2022, nontaxable amounts
will be excluded on Schedule 1, line 8s.
Nontaxable combat pay election. For
2021, individuals elected to include their
nontaxable combat pay in their earned
income when figuring the earned income credit (EIC) by reporting it on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 27b. For
2022, they will make this election by reporting nontaxable combat pay on Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 1i.
Credits for sick and family leave for
certain self-employed individuals are
not available. Self-employed individuals can no longer claim these credits.
Health coverage tax credit is not
available. The health coverage tax
credit was not extended. The credit is
not available after 2021.
Credit for child and dependent care
expenses. The changes to the credit for
child and dependent care expenses implemented by the American Rescue Plan
Act of 2021 (ARP), were not extended.
For 2022, the credit for the child and dependent care expenses is nonrefundable.
The dollar limit on qualifying expenses
is $3,000 for one qualifying person and
$6,000 for two or more qualifying persons. The maximum credit amount allowed is 35% of your employment-related expenses. For more information, see
the Instructions for Form 2441 and Pub.
503.
Child tax credit and additional child
tax credit. Many changes to the child
tax credit (CTC) implemented by ARP
were not extended. For 2022,
• The initial credit amount of the
CTC is $2,000 for each qualifying child.
• The amount of CTC that can be
claimed as a refundable credit is limited
as it was in 2020, except the maximum
additional child tax credit (ACTC)
amount has increased to $1,500 for each
qualifying child.
• A child must be under age 17 at
the end of 2022 to be a qualifying child.
• Bona fide residents of Puerto Rico
are no longer required to have three or

-6-

more qualifying children to be eligible
to claim the ACTC. Bona fide residents
of Puerto Rico may be eligible to claim
the ACTC if they have one or more
qualifying children.
• For more information, see the Instructions for Schedule 8812 (Form
1040).
Changes to the earned income credit
(EIC). The enhancements for taxpayers
without a qualifying child that applied
for 2021 don’t apply for 2022. This
means, to claim the EIC without a qualifying child in 2022 you must be at least
age 25 but under age 65 at the end of
2022. If you are married and filing a
joint return, either you or your spouse
must be at least age 25 but under age 65
at the end of 2022. It doesn’t matter
which spouse meets the age requirement, as long as one of the spouses does.
Reporting requirements for Form
1099-K. Form 1099-K is issued by third
party settlement organizations and credit
card companies to report payment transactions made to you for goods and services.
You must report all income on your
tax return unless excluded by law,
whether you received the income electronically or not, and whether you received a Form 1099-K or not. The
box 1a and other amounts reported on
Form 1099-K are additional pieces of information to help determine the correct
amounts to report on your return.
If you received a Form 1099-K that
shows payments you didn’t receive or is
otherwise incorrect, contact the Form
1099-K issuer. Don’t contact the IRS;
the IRS can’t correct an incorrect Form
1099-K. If you can’t get it corrected, or
you sold a personal item at a loss, see
the instructions for Schedule 1, lines 8z
and 24z, later, for more reporting information.
All IRS information about Form
1099-K is available by going to IRS.gov/
1099K.

Free Software Options for Doing Your Taxes
Why have 49 million Americans used Free File?

• Security—Free File uses the latest encryption technology to safeguard your information.
• Flexible Payments—File early; pay by April 18, 2023 (for most people).
• Greater Accuracy—Fewer errors mean faster processing.
• Quick Receipt—Get an acknowledgment that your return was received and accepted.
• Go Green—Reduce the amount of paper used.
• It’s Free—through IRS.gov/FreeFile.
• Faster Refunds—Join the eight in 10 taxpayers who get their refunds faster by using
direct deposit and e-file.

Do Your Taxes for Free
If your adjusted gross income was $73,000 or less in 2022, you can use free tax software to prepare and e-file your tax return.
Earned more? Use Free File Fillable Forms.
Free File. This public–private partnership, between the IRS and tax software providers, makes approximately a dozen
brand-name commercial software products and e-file available for free. Seventy percent of the nation’s taxpayers are eligible.
Just visit IRS.gov/FreeFile for details. Free File combines all the benefits of e-file and easy-to-use software at no cost. Guided
questions will help ensure you get all the tax credits and deductions you are due. It’s fast, safe, and free.
You can review each software provider’s criteria for free usage or use an online tool to find which free software products match
your situation. Some software providers offer state tax return preparation for free.
Free File Fillable Forms. The IRS offers electronic versions of IRS paper forms that can also be e-filed for free. Free File
Fillable Forms is best for people experienced in preparing their own tax returns. There are no income limitations. Free File
Fillable Forms does basic math calculations. It supports only federal tax forms.

Free Tax Help Available Nationwide
Volunteers are available in communities nationwide providing free tax assistance to low-to-moderate income (generally under
$60,000 in adjusted gross income) and elderly taxpayers (age 60 and older). At selected sites, taxpayers can input and
electronically file their own tax return with the assistance of an IRS-certified volunteer.
See How To Get Tax Help near the end of these instructions for additional information or visit IRS.gov (Keyword: VITA) for a
VITA/TCE site near you!

IRS.gov is the gateway to all electronic services offered by the IRS, as well as the spot to download forms at IRS.gov/Forms.

Make your tax payments online—it’s easy.
You can make payments online, by phone, or from a mobile device. Paying online is safe and secure; it
puts you in control of paying your tax bill and gives you peace of mind. You determine the payment
date, and you will receive an immediate confirmation from the IRS. Go to IRS.gov/Payments to see all
your online payment options.

-7-

Filing
Requirements
Do You Have To
File?
Use Chart A, B, or C to see if you must
file a return. U.S. citizens who lived in
or had income from a U.S. possession
should see Pub. 570. Residents of Puerto
Rico can use Tax Topic 901 to see if
they must file.
Even if you do not otherwise

TIP have to file a return, you
should file one to get a refund
of any federal income tax withheld. You
should also file if you are eligible for
any of the following credits.

• Earned income credit.
• Additional child tax credit.
• American opportunity credit.
• Credit for federal tax on fuels.
• Premium tax credit.
• Credits for sick and family leave.
See Pub. 501 for details. Also see
Pub. 501 if you do not have to file but
received a Form 1099-B (or substitute
statement).
Requirement to reconcile advance
payments of the premium tax credit.
If you, your spouse with whom you are
filing a joint return, or a dependent was
enrolled in coverage through the Marketplace for 2022 and advance payments
of the premium tax credit were made for
this coverage, you must file a 2022 return and attach Form 8962. You (or
whoever enrolled you) should have received Form 1095-A from the Marketplace with information about your coverage and any advance payments.
You must attach Form 8962 even if
someone else enrolled you, your spouse,
or your dependent. If you are a dependent who is claimed on someone else's
2022 return, you do not have to attach
Form 8962.
Exception for certain children under
age 19 or full-time students. If certain
conditions apply, you can elect to in-

These rules apply to all U.S. citizens, regardless of where they live, and resident aliens.
Have you tried IRS e-file? It's the fastest way to get your refund
and it's free if you are eligible. Visit IRS.gov for details.
clude on your return the income of a
child who was under age 19 at the end
of 2022 or was a full-time student under
age 24 at the end of 2022. To do so, use
Form 8814. If you make this election,
your child doesn't have to file a return.
For details, use Tax Topic 553 or see
Form 8814.
A child born on January 1, 1999, is
considered to be age 24 at the end of
2022. Do not use Form 8814 for such a
child.

If you were serving in, or in support
of, the U.S. Armed Forces in a designated combat zone or contingency operation, you may be able to file later. See
Pub. 3 for details.

Resident aliens. These rules also apply
if you were a resident alien. Also, you
may qualify for certain tax treaty benefits. See Pub. 519 for details.

address for mailing your return. Use these addresses for Forms
1040 or 1040-SR filed in 2023. The address for returns filed after 2023 may be
different. See IRS.gov/Form1040 for any
updates.

Nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens. These rules also apply if you were
a nonresident alien or a dual-status alien
and both of the following apply.
• You were married to a U.S. citizen
or resident alien at the end of 2022.
• You elected to be taxed as a resident alien.
See Pub. 519 for details.
Specific rules apply to determine if you are a resident alien,
CAUTION nonresident alien, or dual-status alien. Most nonresident aliens and
dual-status aliens have different filing
requirements and may have to file Form
1040-NR. Pub. 519 discusses these requirements and other information to
help aliens comply with U.S. tax law.

!

When and Where
Should You File?
File Form 1040 or 1040-SR by April 18,
2023. The due date is April 18, instead
of April 15, because of the Emancipation Day holiday in the District of Columbia – even if you don’t live in the
District of Columbia. If you file after
this date, you may have to pay interest
and penalties. See Interest and Penalties, later.

-8-

If you e-file your return, there is no
need to mail it. However, if you choose
to mail it instead, filing instructions and
addresses are at the end of these instructions.
The chart at the end of these in-

TIP structions provides the current

What if You Can't File on
Time?
You can get an automatic 6-month extension if, no later than the date your return is due, you file Form 4868. For details, see Form 4868. Instead of filing
Form 4868, you can apply for an automatic extension by making an electronic
payment by the due date of your return.
An automatic 6-month extension to file doesn't extend the
CAUTION time to pay your tax. If you
don’t pay your tax by the original due
date of your return, you will owe interest
on the unpaid tax and may owe penalties. See Form 4868.

!

If you are a U.S. citizen or resident
alien, you may qualify for an automatic
extension of time to file without filing
Form 4868. You qualify if, on the due
date of your return, you meet one of the
following conditions.
• You live outside the United States
and Puerto Rico and your main place of
business or post of duty is outside the
United States and Puerto Rico.
• You are in military or naval service on duty outside the United States and
Puerto Rico.

This extension gives you an extra 2
months to file and pay the tax, but interest will be charged from the original due
date of the return on any unpaid tax.
You must include a statement showing
that you meet the requirements. If you
are still unable to file your return by the
end of the 2-month period, you can get
an additional 4 months if, no later than
June 15, 2023, you file Form 4868. This
4-month extension of time to file doesn't
extend the time to pay your tax. See
Form 4868.

Private Delivery Services
If you choose to mail your return, you
can use certain private delivery services

designated by the IRS to meet the “timely mailing treated as timely filing/
paying” rule for tax returns and payments. These private delivery services
include only the following.
• DHL Express 9:00, DHL Express
10:30, DHL Express 12:00, DHL Express Worldwide, DHL Express Envelope, DHL Import Express 10:30, DHL
Import Express 12:00, and DHL Import
Express Worldwide.
• UPS Next Day Air Early A.M.,
UPS Next Day Air, UPS Next Day Air
Saver, UPS 2nd Day Air, UPS 2nd Day
Air A.M., UPS Worldwide Express
Plus, and UPS Worldwide Express.

• FedEx First Overnight, FedEx Priority Overnight, FedEx Standard Overnight, FedEx 2 Day, FedEx International
Next Flight Out, FedEx International
Priority, FedEx International First, and
FedEx International Economy.
To check for any updates to the list of
designated private delivery services, go
to IRS.gov/PDS. For the IRS mailing address to use if you’re using a private delivery service, go to IRS.gov/
PDSStreetAddresses.
The private delivery service can tell
you how to get written proof of the mailing date.

Chart A—For Most People
IF your filing status is . . .

AND at the end of 2022
you were* . . .

THEN file a return if your gross
income** was at least . . .

Single

under 65
65 or older

$12,950
14,700

Married filing jointly***

under 65 (both spouses)
65 or older (one spouse)
65 or older (both spouses)

$25,900
27,300
28,700

Married filing separately

any age

Head of household

under 65
65 or older

$19,400
21,150

Qualifying surviving spouse

under 65
65 or older

$25,900
27,300

$5

*If you were born on January 1, 1958, you are considered to be age 65 at the end of 2022. (If your spouse died in 2022 or
if you are preparing a return for someone who died in 2022, see Pub. 501.)
**Gross income means all income you received in the form of money, goods, property, and services that isn't exempt from
tax, including any income from sources outside the United States or from the sale of your main home (even if you can
exclude part or all of it). Don’t include any social security benefits unless (a) you are married filing a separate return and
you lived with your spouse at any time in 2022, or (b) one-half of your social security benefits plus your other gross
income and any tax-exempt interest is more than $25,000 ($32,000 if married filing jointly). If (a) or (b) applies, see the
instructions for lines 6a and 6b to figure the taxable part of social security benefits you must include in gross income.
Gross income includes gains, but not losses, reported on Form 8949 or Schedule D. Gross income from a business means,
for example, the amount on Schedule C, line 7, or Schedule F, line 9. But, in figuring gross income, don’t reduce your
income by any losses, including any loss on Schedule C, line 7, or Schedule F, line 9.
***If you didn't live with your spouse at the end of 2022 (or on the date your spouse died) and your gross income was at
least $5, you must file a return regardless of your age.

-9-

Chart B—For Children and Other Dependents (See Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, later.)
If your parent (or someone else) can claim you as a dependent, use this chart to see if you must file a return.
In this chart, unearned income includes taxable interest, ordinary dividends, and capital gain distributions. It also includes
unemployment compensation, taxable social security benefits, pensions, annuities, and distributions of unearned income from a trust.
Earned income includes salaries, wages, tips, professional fees, and taxable scholarship and fellowship grants. Gross income is the
total of your unearned and earned income.
Single dependents. Were you either age 65 or older or blind?
No. You must file a return if any of the following apply.
• Your unearned income was over $1,150.
• Your earned income was over $12,950.
• Your gross income was more than the larger of—
• $1,150, or
• Your earned income (up to $12,550) plus $400.
Yes. You must file a return if any of the following apply.
• Your unearned income was over $2,900 ($4,650 if 65 or older and blind).
• Your earned income was over $14,700 ($16,450 if 65 or older and blind).
• Your gross income was more than the larger of—

• $2,900 ($4,650 if 65 or older and blind), or
• Your earned income (up to $12,550) plus $2,150 ($3,900 if 65 or older and blind).

Married dependents. Were you either age 65 or older or blind?
No. You must file a return if any of the following apply.
• Your unearned income was over $1,150.
• Your earned income was over $12,950.
• Your gross income was at least $5 and your spouse files a separate return and itemizes deductions.
• Your gross income was more than the larger of—
• $1,150, or
• Your earned income (up to $12,550) plus $400.
Yes. You must file a return if any of the following apply.
• Your unearned income was over $2,550 ($3,950 if 65 or older and blind).
• Your earned income was over $14,350 ($15,750 if 65 or older and blind).
• Your gross income was at least $5 and your spouse files a separate return and itemizes deductions.
• Your gross income was more than the larger of—

• $2,550 ($3,950 if 65 or older and blind), or
• Your earned income (up to $12,550) plus $1,800 ($3,200 if 65 or older and blind).

-10-

Chart C—Other Situations When You Must File
You must file a return if any of the conditions below apply for 2022.
1.

You owe any special taxes, including any of the following (see the instructions for Schedule 2).
a. Alternative minimum tax.
b. Additional tax on a qualified plan, including an individual retirement arrangement (IRA), or other tax-favored account.
c. Household employment taxes.
d. Social security and Medicare tax on tips you didn't report to your employer or on wages you received from an employer
who didn't withhold these taxes.
e. Uncollected social security and Medicare or RRTA tax on tips you reported to your employer or on group-term life
insurance and additional taxes on health savings accounts.
f. Recapture taxes.

2.

You (or your spouse if filing jointly) received health savings account, Archer MSA, or Medicare Advantage MSA
distributions.

3.

You had net earnings from self-employment of at least $400.

4.

You had wages of $108.28 or more from a church or qualified church-controlled organization that is exempt from
employer social security and Medicare taxes.

5.

Advance payments of the premium tax credit were made for you, your spouse, or a dependent who enrolled in coverage
through the Marketplace. You or whoever enrolled you should have received Form(s) 1095-A showing the amount of the
advance payments.

6.

You are required to include amounts in income under section 965 or you have a net tax liability under section 965 that you
are paying in installments under section 965(h) or deferred by making an election under section 965(i).

-11-

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Line
Instructions
for
Forms 1040
and 1040-SR

Filing Status
Check only the filing status that applies
to you. The ones that will usually give
you the lowest tax are listed last.
• Married filing separately.
• Single.
• Head of household.
• Married filing jointly.
• Qualifying surviving spouse.
For information about marital status, see
Pub. 501.
More than one filing status can

TIP apply to you. You can choose
the one that will give you the
lowest tax.

Single
You can check the “Single” box at the
top of Form 1040 or 1040-SR if any of
the following was true on December 31,
2022.
• You were never married.
• You were legally separated according to your state law under a decree of
divorce or separate maintenance. But if,
at the end of 2022, your divorce wasn't
final (an interlocutory decree), you are
considered married and can't check the
box.
• You were widowed before January
1, 2022, and didn't remarry before the
end of 2022. But if you have a child,
you may be able to use the qualifying
surviving spouse filing status. See the

!

Also see the instructions for Schedule 1 through Schedule 3 that follow the
Form 1040 and 1040-SR instructions.

CAUTION

Free File makes available free brand-name software and free e-file. Visit IRS.gov/
FreeFile for details and to see if you are eligible.
What form to file. Everyone can file Form 1040. Form 1040-SR is available to you if
you were born before January 2, 1958.
Fiscal year filers. If you are a fiscal year filer using a tax year other than January 1
through December 31, 2022, write “Tax Year” and the beginning and ending months
of your fiscal year in the top margin of page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Write-in information. If you need to write a word, code, and/or dollar amount on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR to explain an item of income or deduction, but don't have
enough space to enter the word, code, and/or dollar amount, you can put an asterisk
next to the applicable line number and put a footnote at the bottom of page 2 of your
tax return indicating the line number and the word, code, and/or dollar amount you
need to enter.
Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code.
instructions for Qualifying Surviving
Spouse, later.

Married Filing Jointly
You can check the “Married filing jointly” box at the top of Form 1040 or
1040-SR if any of the following apply.
• You were married at the end of
2022, even if you didn't live with your
spouse at the end of 2022.
• Your spouse died in 2022 and you
didn't remarry in 2022.
• You were married at the end of
2022 and your spouse died in 2023 before filing a 2022 return.
A married couple filing jointly report
their combined income and deduct their
combined allowable expenses on one return. They can file a joint return even if
only one had income or if they didn't
live together all year. However, both
persons must sign the return. Once you
file a joint return, you can't choose to
file separate returns for that year after
the due date of the return.
Joint and several tax liability. If you
file a joint return, both you and your
spouse are generally responsible for the
tax and interest or penalties due on the
return. This means that if one spouse
doesn't pay the tax due, the other may
have to. Or, if one spouse doesn't report
the correct tax, both spouses may be responsible for any additional taxes assessed by the IRS. You may want to file
separately if:

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

-12-

• You believe your spouse isn't reporting all of their income, or
• You don’t want to be responsible
for any taxes due if your spouse doesn't
have enough tax withheld or doesn't pay
enough estimated tax.
See the instructions for Married Filing
Separately. Also see Innocent Spouse
Relief under General Information, later.
Nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens. Generally, a married couple can't
file a joint return if either spouse is a
nonresident alien at any time during the
year. However, if you were a nonresident alien or a dual-status alien and were
married to a U.S. citizen or resident alien at the end of 2022, you can elect to
be treated as a resident alien and file a
joint return. See Pub. 519 for details.

Married Filing Separately
Check the “Married filing separately”
box at the top of Form 1040 or 1040-SR
if you are married, at the end of 2022,
and file a separate return. Enter your
spouse’s name in the entry space below
the filing status checkboxes. Be sure to
enter your spouse’s SSN or Individual
Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN)
in the space for spouse’s SSN on Form
1040 or 1040-SR. If your spouse doesn’t
have and isn’t required to have an SSN
or ITIN, enter “NRA” in the entry space
below the filing status checkboxes.
For electronic filing, enter the spouse's name or “NRA” if the spouse
doesn’t have an SSN or ITIN in the en-

try space below the filing status checkboxes.
If you are married and file a separate
return, you generally report only your
own income, deductions, and credits.
Generally, you are responsible only for
the tax on your own income. Different
rules apply to people in community
property states; see Pub. 555.
However, you will usually pay more
tax than if you use another filing status
for which you qualify. Also, if you file a
separate return, you can't take the student loan interest deduction or the education credits, and you will only be able
to take the earned income credit and
child and dependent care credit in very
limited circumstances. You also can't
take the standard deduction if your
spouse itemizes deductions.
You may be able to file as head

TIP of household if you had a child
living with you and you lived
apart from your spouse during the last 6
months of 2022. See Married persons
who live apart, later.

Head of Household
You can check the “Head of household”
box at the top of Form 1040 or 1040-SR
if you are unmarried and provide a home
for certain other persons. You are considered unmarried for this purpose if any
of the following applies.
• You were legally separated according to your state law under a decree of
divorce or separate maintenance at the
end of 2022. But if, at the end of 2022,
your divorce wasn't final (an interlocutory decree), you are considered married.
• You are married but lived apart
from your spouse for the last 6 months
of 2022 and you meet the other rules under Married persons who live apart, later.
• You are married and your spouse
was a nonresident alien at any time during the year and the election to treat the
alien spouse as a resident alien is not
made.
Check the “Head of household” box only if you are unmarried (or considered
unmarried) and either Test 1 or Test 2
applies.
Test 1. You paid over half the cost of
keeping up a home that was the main
home for all of 2022 of your parent

whom you can claim as a dependent, except under a multiple support agreement
(see Who Qualifies as Your Dependent,
later). Your parent didn't have to live
with you.
Test 2. You paid over half the cost of
keeping up a home in which you lived
and in which one of the following also
lived for more than half of the year (if
half or less, see Exception to time lived
with you, later).
1. Any person whom you can claim
as a dependent. But don’t include:
a. Your child whom you claim as
your dependent because of the rule for
Children of divorced or separated parents under Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, later;
b. Any person who is your dependent only because the person lived with
you for all of 2022; or
c. Any person you claimed as a dependent under a multiple support agreement. See Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, later.
2. Your unmarried qualifying child
who isn't your dependent.
3. Your married qualifying child
who isn't your dependent only because
you can be claimed as a dependent on
someone else's 2022 return.
4. Your qualifying child who, even
though you are the custodial parent, isn't
your dependent because of the rule for
Children of divorced or separated parents under Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, later.
If the child isn't claimed as your dependent, enter the child's name in the entry space below the filing status checkboxes. If you don’t enter the name, it
will take us longer to process your return.
Qualifying child. To find out if someone is your qualifying child, see Step 1
under Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, later.
Dependent. To find out if someone is
your dependent, see Who Qualifies as
Your Dependent, later.
The dependents you claim are

TIP those you list by name and SSN
in the Dependents section on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR.

-13-

Exception to time lived with you.
Temporary absences by you or the other
person for special circumstances, such
as school, vacation, business, medical
care, military service, or detention in a
juvenile facility, count as time lived in
the home. Also see Kidnapped child, later, under Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, if applicable.
If the person for whom you kept up a
home was born or died in 2022, you still
may be able to file as head of household.
If the person is your qualifying child, the
child must have lived with you for more
than half the part of the year the child
was alive. If the person is anyone else,
see Pub. 501. Similarly, if you adopted
the person for whom you kept up a
home in 2022, the person was lawfully
placed with you for legal adoption by
you in 2022, or the person was an eligible foster child placed with you during
2022, the person is considered to have
lived with you for more than half of
2022 if your main home was this person’s main home for more than half the
time since the person was adopted or
placed with you in 2022.
Keeping up a home. To find out what
is included in the cost of keeping up a
home, see Pub. 501.
Married persons who live apart. Even
if you weren’t divorced or legally separated at the end of 2022, you are considered unmarried if all of the following
apply.
• You lived apart from your spouse
for the last 6 months of 2022. Temporary absences for special circumstances,
such as for business, medical care,
school, or military service, count as time
lived in the home.
• You file a separate return from
your spouse.
• You paid over half the cost of
keeping up your home for 2022.
• Your home was the main home of
your child, stepchild, or foster child for
more than half of 2022 (if half or less,
see Exception to time lived with you,
earlier).
• You can claim this child as your
dependent or could claim the child except that the child's other parent can
claim the child under the rule for Children of divorced or separated parents
under Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, later.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Adopted child. An adopted child is
always treated as your own child. An
adopted child includes a child lawfully
placed with you for legal adoption.
Foster child. A foster child is any
child placed with you by an authorized
placement agency or by judgment, decree, or other order of any court of competent jurisdiction.

Qualifying Surviving Spouse
You can check the “Qualifying surviving spouse” box at the top of Form 1040
or 1040-SR and use joint return tax rates
for 2022 if all of the following apply.
1. Your spouse died in 2020 or 2021
and you didn't remarry before the end of
2022.
2. You have a child or stepchild (not
a foster child) whom you can claim as a
dependent or could claim as a dependent
except that, for 2022:
a. The child had gross income of
$4,400 or more,
b. The child filed a joint return, or
c. You could be claimed as a dependent on someone else’s return.
If the child isn’t claimed as your dependent, enter the child’s name in the
entry space below the filing status
checkboxes. If you don’t enter the name,
it will take us longer to process your return.
3. This child lived in your home for
all of 2022. If the child didn't live with
you for the required time, see Exception
to time lived with you, later.
4. You paid over half the cost of
keeping up your home.
5. You could have filed a joint return with your spouse the year your
spouse died, even if you didn't actually
do so.
If your spouse died in 2022, you can't
file as qualifying surviving spouse. Instead, see the instructions for Married
Filing Jointly, earlier.
Adopted child. An adopted child is always treated as your own child. An
adopted child includes a child lawfully
placed with you for legal adoption.
Dependent. To find out if someone is
your dependent, see Who Qualifies as
Your Dependent, later.

The dependents you claim are

TIP those you list by name and SSN
in the Dependents section on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Exception to time lived with you.
Temporary absences by you or the child
for special circumstances, such as
school, vacation, business, medical care,
military service, or detention in a juvenile facility, count as time lived in the
home. Also see Kidnapped child, later,
under Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, if applicable.
A child is considered to have lived
with you for all of 2022 if the child was
born or died in 2022 and your home was
the child's home for the entire time the
child was alive. Similarly, if you adopted the child in 2022, or the child was
lawfully placed with you for legal adoption by you in 2022, the child is considered to have lived with you for all of
2022 if your main home was this child's
main home for the entire time since the
child was adopted or placed with you in
2022.
Keeping up a home. To find out what
is included in the cost of keeping up a
home, see Pub. 501.

Name and Address
Print or type the information in the
spaces provided. If you are married filing a separate return, enter your spouse's
name in the entry space below the filing
status checkboxes instead of below your
name.
If you filed a joint return for

TIP 2021 and you are filing a joint
return for 2022 with the same
spouse, be sure to enter your names and
SSNs in the same order as on your 2021
return.

Name Change
If you changed your name because of
marriage, divorce, etc., be sure to report
the change to the Social Security Administration (SSA) before filing your return. This prevents delays in processing
your return and issuing refunds. It also
safeguards your future social security
benefits.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Address Change
If you plan to move after filing your return, use Form 8822 to notify the IRS of
your new address.

P.O. Box
Enter your box number only if your post
office doesn't deliver mail to your home.

Foreign Address
If you have a foreign address, enter the
city name on the appropriate line. Don’t
enter any other information on that line,
but also complete the spaces below that
line. Don’t abbreviate the country name.
Follow the country’s practice for entering the postal code and the name of the
province, county, or state.

Death of a Taxpayer
See Death of a Taxpayer under General
Information, later.

Social Security
Number (SSN)
An incorrect or missing SSN can increase your tax, reduce your refund, or
delay your refund. To apply for an SSN,
fill in Form SS-5 and return it, along
with the appropriate evidence documents, to the Social Security Administration (SSA). You can get Form SS-5
online at SSA.gov/forms/ss-5.pdf, from
your local SSA office, or by calling the
SSA at 800-772-1213. It usually takes
about 2 weeks to get an SSN once the
SSA has all the evidence and information it needs.
Check that both the name and SSN
on your Forms 1040 or 1040-SR, W-2,
and 1099 agree with your social security
card. If they don’t, certain deductions
and credits on Form 1040 or 1040-SR
may be reduced or disallowed and you
may not receive credit for your social
security earnings. If your Form W-2
shows an incorrect SSN or name, notify
your employer or the form-issuing agent
as soon as possible to make sure your
earnings are credited to your social security record. If the name or SSN on
your social security card is incorrect,
call the SSA.
Once you are issued an SSN, use it to
file your tax return. Use your SSN to file

-14-

your tax return even if your SSN does
not authorize employment or if you have
been issued an SSN that authorizes employment and you lose your employment authorization. An ITIN will not be
issued to you once you have been issued
an SSN. If you received your SSN after
previously using an ITIN, stop using
your ITIN. Use your SSN instead.

IRS Individual Taxpayer
Identification Numbers
(ITINs) for Aliens
If you are a nonresident or resident alien
and you don’t have and aren’t eligible to
get an SSN, you must apply for an ITIN.
It takes about 7 weeks to get an ITIN.
If you already have an ITIN, enter it
wherever your SSN is requested on your
tax return.
Some ITINs must be renewed. If you
haven't used your ITIN on a federal tax
return at least once for tax years 2019,
2020, or 2021, it expired at the end of
2022 and must be renewed if you need
to file a federal tax return in 2023. You
don't need to renew your ITIN if you
don't need to file a federal tax return.
You can find more information at
IRS.gov/ITIN.
ITINs assigned before 2013
TIP have expired and must be renewed if you need to file a tax
return in 2023. If you previously submitted a renewal application and it was approved, you do not need to renew again
unless you haven't used your ITIN on a
federal tax return at least once for tax
years 2019, 2020, or 2021.
An ITIN is for tax use only. It doesn't
entitle you to social security benefits or
change your employment or immigration status under U.S. law.
For more information on ITINs, including application, expiration, and renewal, see Form W-7 and its instructions.
If you receive an SSN after previously using an ITIN, stop using your ITIN.
Use your SSN instead. Visit a local IRS
office or write a letter to the IRS explaining that you now have an SSN and
want all your tax records combined under your SSN. Details about what to include with the letter and where to mail it
are at IRS.gov/ITIN.

Nonresident Alien Spouse
If your spouse is a nonresident alien,
your spouse must have either an SSN or
an ITIN if:
• You file a joint return, or
• Your spouse is filing a separate return.

Presidential Election
Campaign Fund
This fund helps pay for Presidential
election campaigns. The fund reduces
candidates' dependence on large contributions from individuals and groups and
places candidates on an equal financial
footing in the general election. The fund
also helps pay for pediatric medical research. If you want $3 to go to this fund,
check the box. If you are filing a joint
return, your spouse can also have $3 go
to the fund. If you check a box, your tax
or refund won't change.

Digital Assets
Digital assets are any digital representations of value that are recorded on a
cryptographically secured distributed
ledger or any similar technology. For
example, digital assets include non-fungible tokens (NFTs) and virtual currencies, such as cryptocurrencies and stablecoins. If a particular asset has the
characteristics of a digital asset, it will
be treated as a digital asset for federal
income tax purposes.
Check the “Yes” box next to the
question on digital assets on page 1 of
Form 1040 or 1040-SR if at any time
during 2022, you (a) received (as a reward, award, or payment for property or
services); or (b) sold, exchanged, gifted,
or otherwise disposed of a digital asset
(or any financial interest in any digital
asset).
For example, check “Yes” if at any
time during 2022 you:
• Received digital assets as payment
for property or services provided;
• Received digital assets as a result
of a reward or award;
• Received new digital assets as a
result of mining, staking, and similar activities;
• Received digital assets as a result
of a hard fork;
• Disposed of digital assets in exchange for property or services;

-15-

• Disposed of a digital asset in exchange or trade for another digital asset;
• Sold a digital asset;
• Transferred digital assets for free
(without receiving any consideration) as
a bona fide gift; or
• Otherwise disposed of any other financial interest in a digital asset.
You have a financial interest in a digital asset if you are the owner of record
of a digital asset, or have an ownership
stake in an account that holds one or
more digital assets, including the rights
and obligations to acquire a financial interest, or you own a wallet that holds
digital assets.
The following actions or transactions
in 2022, alone, generally don’t require
you to check “Yes”:
• Holding a digital asset in a wallet
or account;
• Transferring a digital asset from
one wallet or account you own or control to another wallet or account that you
own or control; or
• Purchasing digital assets using
U.S. or other real currency, including
through the use of electronic platforms
such as PayPal and Venmo.
Do not leave the question unanswered. You must answer “Yes” or
“No” by checking the appropriate box.
For more information, go to IRS.gov/
virtualcurrencyfaqs.
How To Report Digital Asset
Transactions
If, in 2022, you disposed of any digital
asset, which you held as a capital asset,
through a sale, trade, exchange, payment, gift, or other transfer, check “Yes”
and use (a) Form 8949 to calculate your
capital gain or loss and report that gain
or loss on Schedule D (Form 1040) or
(b) Form 709 in the case of gifts.
If you received any digital asset as
compensation for services or disposed of
any digital asset that you held for sale to
customers in a trade or business, you
must report the income as you would report other income of the same type (for
example, W-2 wages on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 1a, or inventory or services on Schedule C).

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Standard Deduction
If you are filing Form 1040-SR,

TIP you can find a Standard Deduction Chart on the last page
of that form that can calculate the
amount of your standard deduction in
most situations.
Don’t file the Standard Deduction
Chart with your return.

Single and Married Filing
Jointly
If you or your spouse (if you are married
and filing a joint return) can be claimed
as a dependent on someone else’s return,
check the appropriate box in the Standard Deduction section.
If you were a dual-status alien, check
the “Spouse itemizes on a separate return or you were a dual-status alien”
box. If you were a dual-status alien and
you file a joint return with your spouse
who was a U.S. citizen or resident alien
at the end of 2022 and you and your
spouse agree to be taxed on your combined worldwide income, don’t check
the box.
Age/Blindness
If you or your spouse (if you are married
and filing a joint return) were born before January 2, 1958, or were blind at
the end of 2022, check the appropriate

boxes on the line labeled “Age/Blindness.”
Don’t check any boxes for your
spouse if your filing status is head of
household.
Death of spouse in 2022. If your
spouse was born before January 2, 1958,
but died in 2022 before reaching age 65,
don’t check the box that says “Spouse
was born before January 2, 1958.”
A person is considered to reach age
65 on the day before the person’s 65th
birthday.
Example. Your spouse was born on
February 14, 1957, and died on February
13, 2022. Your spouse is considered age
65 at the time of death. Check the appropriate box for your spouse. However, if
your spouse died on February 12, 2022,
your spouse isn't considered age 65.
Don’t check the box.
Death of taxpayer in 2022. If you are
preparing a return for someone who died
in 2022, see Pub. 501 before completing
the standard deduction information.

Blindness
If you weren’t totally blind as of December 31, 2022, you must get a statement certified by your eye doctor (ophthalmologist or optometrist) that:
• You can't see better than 20/200 in
your better eye with glasses or contact
lenses, or
• Your field of vision is 20 degrees
or less.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

-16-

If your eye condition isn't likely to
improve beyond the conditions listed
above, you can get a statement certified
by your eye doctor (ophthalmologist or
optometrist) to this effect instead.
You must keep the statement for your
records.
If you receive a notice or letter but
you would prefer to have it in Braille or
large print, you can use Form 9000, Alternative Media Preference, to request
notices in an alternative format including Braille, large print, audio, or electronic. You can attach Form 9000 to
your return or mail it separately.
• You can download, or view online,
tax forms and publications in a variety
of formats including text-only, Braille
ready files, browser-friendly HTML
(other than tax forms), accessible PDF,
and large print.

Married Filing Separately
If your filing status is married filing separately and your spouse itemizes deductions on their return, check the “Spouse
itemizes on a separate return or you
were a dual-status alien” box.
If your filing status is married filing
separately and your spouse was born before January 2, 1958, or was blind at the
end of 2022, you can check the appropriate box(es) on the line labeled “Age/
Blindness” if your spouse had no income, isn't filing a return, and can't be
claimed as a dependent on another person's return.

Who Qualifies as Your
Dependent

Step 1

Dependents, Qualifying Child for Child Tax
Credit, and Credit for Other Dependents

A qualifying child is a child who is your...

Follow the steps below to find out if a person qualifies as your
dependent and to find out if your dependent qualifies you to
take the child tax credit or the credit for other dependents. If
you have more than four dependents, check the box under Dependents on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR and include a
statement showing the information required in columns (1)
through (4).

TIP

Do You Have a Qualifying
Child?

Son, daughter, stepchild, foster child, brother, sister, stepbrother, stepsister, half
brother, half sister, or a descendant of any of them (for example, your grandchild,
niece, or nephew)

AND

was ...

The dependents you claim are those you list by name
and SSN in the Dependents section on Form 1040 or
1040-SR.

Under age 19 at the end of 2022 and younger than you
(or your spouse if filing jointly)
or

Before you begin. See the definition of Social security number, later. If you want to claim the child tax credit or the credit
for other dependents, you (and your spouse if filing jointly)
must have an SSN or ITIN issued on or before the due date of
your 2022 return (including extensions). If an ITIN is applied
for on or before the due date of a 2022 return (including extensions) and the IRS issues an ITIN as result of the application,
the IRS will consider the ITIN as issued on or before the due
date of the return.

Under age 24 at the end of 2022, a student (defined later), and younger than you
(or your spouse if filing jointly)
or
Any age and permanently and totally disabled (defined later)

AND

Who didn't provide over half of their own support for 2022 (see Pub. 501)

AND

Who isn't filing a joint return for 2022
or is filing a joint return for 2022 only to claim a refund of withheld income tax or
estimated tax paid (see Pub. 501 for details and examples)

AND

Who lived with you for more than half of 2022. If the child didn't live with you
for the required time, see Exception to time lived with you, later.

!

If the child meets the conditions to be a qualifying child of any
other person (other than your spouse if filing jointly) for 2022, see
Qualifying child of more than one person, later.

CAUTION

1. Do you have a child who meets the conditions to be your
qualifying child?
Yes. Go to Step 2.
No. Go to Step 4.

Step 2

Is Your Qualifying Child Your
Dependent?

1. Was the child a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, U.S. resident
alien, or a resident of Canada or Mexico? (See Pub. 519 for

-17-

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

the definition of a U.S. national or U.S. resident alien. If the
child was adopted, see Exception to citizen test, later.)
Yes. Continue
No. STOP
䊲

2. Was the child married?
Yes. See Married
person, later.

You can't claim this child
as a dependent.

No. Continue

䊲

3. Could you, or your spouse if filing jointly, be claimed as a
dependent on someone else's 2022 tax return? (If the person
who could claim you on their 2022 tax return is not required
to file, and isn't filing a 2022 tax return or is filing a 2022
return only to claim a refund of withheld income tax or
estimated tax paid, check “No.”) See Steps 1, 2, and 4.
No. You can claim this
Yes. STOP
child as a dependent.
You can't claim any
Complete columns (1)
dependents. Complete
through (3) of the
the rest of Form 1040 or
Dependents section on
1040-SR and any
page 1 of Form 1040 or
applicable schedules.
1040-SR for this child.
Then, go to Step 3.

Step 3

3. Was the child under age 17 at the end of 2022?
Yes. Continue
No. You can claim the
䊲
credit for other
dependents for this child.
Check the “Credit for
other dependents” box in
column (4) of the
Dependents section on
page 1 of Form 1040 or
1040-SR for this person.
4. Did this child have an SSN valid for employment issued
before the due date of your 2022 return (including
extensions)? (See Social Security Number, later.)
Yes. You can claim the
No. STOP
child tax credit for this
You can claim the credit
person. Check the
for other dependents for
“Child tax credit” box
this child. Check the
in column (4) of the
“Credit for other
Dependents section on
dependents” box in
page 1 of Form 1040 or
column (4) of the
1040-SR for this
Dependents section on
person.
page 1 of Form 1040 or
1040-SR for this person.

Does Your Qualifying Child
Qualify You for the Child Tax
Credit or Credit for Other
Dependents?

1. Did the child have an SSN, ITIN, or adoption taxpayer
identification number (ATIN) issued on or before the due
date of your return (including extensions)? (Answer “Yes”
if you are applying for an ITIN or ATIN for the child on or
before the due date of your return (including extensions).)
Yes. Continue
No. STOP
䊲

You can’t claim the child
tax credit or the credit for
other dependents for this
child.

2. Was the child a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, or U.S. resident
alien? (See Pub. 519 for the definition of a U.S. national or
U.S. resident alien. If the child was adopted, see Exception
to citizen test, later.)
Yes. Continue
No. STOP
䊲

You can’t claim the child
tax credit or the credit for
other dependents for this
child.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

-18-

Step 4

Is Your Qualifying Relative
Your Dependent?

3. Was your qualifying relative married?
Yes. See Married
No. Continue
䊲
person, later.

A qualifying relative is a person who is your...
Son, daughter, stepchild, foster child, or a descendant of any of them (for
example, your grandchild)

4. Could you, or your spouse if filing jointly, be claimed as a
dependent on someone else's 2022 tax return? (If the person
who could claim you on their 2022 tax return is not required
to file, and isn't filing a 2022 tax return or is filing a 2022
return only to claim a refund of withheld income tax or
estimated tax paid, check “No.”) See Steps 1, 2, and 4.
No. You can claim this
Yes. STOP
person as a dependent.
You can't claim any
Complete columns (1)
dependents. Complete
through (3) of the
the rest of Form 1040 or
Dependents section on
1040-SR and any
page 1 of Form 1040 or
applicable schedules.
1040-SR. Then, go to
Step 5.

or
Brother, sister, half brother, half sister, or a son or daughter of any of them (for
example, your niece or nephew)
or
Father, mother, or an ancestor or sibling of either of them (for example, your
grandmother, grandfather, aunt, or uncle)
or
Stepbrother, stepsister, stepfather, stepmother, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law
or

Step 5

Any other person (other than your spouse) who lived with you all year as a
member of your household if your relationship didn't violate local law. If the
person didn't live with you for the required time, see Exception to time lived with
you, later.

Does Your Qualifying Relative
Qualify You for the Credit for
Other Dependents?

AND

1. Did your qualifying relative have an SSN, ITIN, or ATIN
issued on or before the due date of your 2022 return
(including extensions)? (Answer “Yes” if you are applying
for an ITIN or ATIN for the qualifying relative on or before
the return due date (including extensions).)
Yes. Continue
No. STOP

Who wasn't a qualifying child (see Step 1) of any taxpayer for 2022. For this
purpose, a person isn't a taxpayer if the person isn't required to file a U.S. income
tax return and either doesn't file such a return or files only to get a refund of
withheld income tax or estimated tax paid. See Pub. 501 for details and examples.

䊲

AND

Who had gross income of less than $4,400 in 2022. If the person was permanently
and totally disabled, see Exception to gross income test, later.

2. Was your qualifying relative a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, or
U.S. resident alien? (See Pub. 519 for the definition of a
U.S. national or a U.S. resident alien. If your qualifying
relative was adopted, see Exception to citizenship test,
later.)
Yes. You can claim
No. STOP
the credit for other
You can’t claim the
dependents for this
credit for other
dependent. Check the
dependents for this
“Credit for other
qualifying relative.
dependents” box in
column (4) of the
Dependents section on
page 1 of Form 1040 or
1040-SR for this
person.

AND

For whom you provided over half of the person’s support in 2022. But see
Children of divorced or separated parents, Multiple support agreements, and
Kidnapped child, later.

1. Does any person meet the conditions to be your qualifying
relative?
Yes. Continue
No. STOP
䊲

2. Was your qualifying relative a U.S. citizen, U.S. national,
U.S. resident alien, or a resident of Canada or Mexico? (See
Pub. 519 for the definition of a U.S. national or U.S.
resident alien. If your qualifying relative was adopted, see
Exception to citizen test, later.)
Yes. Continue
No. STOP
䊲

You can't claim this
person as a dependent.

You can’t claim the
credit for other
dependents for this
qualifying relative.

Definitions and Special Rules
Adopted child. An adopted child is always treated as your own
child. An adopted child includes a child lawfully placed with
you for legal adoption.
Adoption taxpayer identification numbers (ATINs). If you
have a dependent who was placed with you for legal adoption
and you don’t know the dependent’s SSN, you must get an
ATIN for the dependent from the IRS. See Form W-7A for

-19-

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

details. If the dependent isn't a U.S. citizen or resident alien, apply for an ITIN instead using Form W-7.
Children of divorced or separated parents. A child will be
treated as the qualifying child or qualifying relative of the
child’s noncustodial parent (defined later) if all of the following
conditions apply.
1. The parents are divorced, legally separated, separated under a written separation agreement, or lived apart at all times
during the last 6 months of 2022 (whether or not they are or
were married).
2. The child received over half of the child’s support for
2022 from the parents (and the rules on Multiple support agreements, later, don’t apply). Support of a child received from a parent's spouse is treated as provided by the parent.
3. The child is in custody of one or both of the parents for
more than half of 2022.
4. Either of the following applies.
a. The custodial parent signs Form 8332 or a substantially
similar statement that they won't claim the child as a dependent
for 2022, and the noncustodial parent includes a copy of the
form or statement with their return. If the divorce decree or separation agreement went into effect after 1984 and before 2009,
the noncustodial parent may be able to include certain pages
from the decree or agreement instead of Form 8332. See
Post-1984 and pre-2009 decree or agreement and Post-2008
decree or agreement.
b. A pre-1985 decree of divorce or separate maintenance or
written separation agreement between the parents provides that
the noncustodial parent can claim the child as a dependent, and
the noncustodial parent provides at least $600 for support of the
child during 2022.
If conditions (1) through (4) apply, only the noncustodial parent can claim the child for purposes of the child tax credits and
credit for other dependents (lines 19 and 28). However, this
doesn't allow the noncustodial parent to claim head of household filing status, the credit for child and dependent care expenses, the exclusion for dependent care benefits, or the earned income credit. The custodial parent or another taxpayer, if eligible, can claim the child for the earned income credit and these
other benefits. See Pub. 501 for details.
Custodial and noncustodial parents. The custodial parent is
the parent with whom the child lived for the greater number of
nights in 2022. The noncustodial parent is the other parent. If
the child was with each parent for an equal number of nights,
the custodial parent is the parent with the higher adjusted gross
income. See Pub. 501 for an exception for a parent who works
at night, rules for a child who is emancipated under state law,
and other details.
Post-1984 and pre-2009 decree or agreement. The decree
or agreement must state all three of the following.
1. The noncustodial parent can claim the child as a dependent without regard to any condition, such as payment of support.
2. The other parent won't claim the child as a dependent.
3. The years for which the claim is released.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

The noncustodial parent must include all of the following pages from the decree or agreement.
• Cover page (include the other parent's SSN on that page).
• The pages that include all the information identified in (1)
through (3) above.
• Signature page with the other parent's signature and date
of agreement.

!

You must include the required information even if you
filed it with your return in an earlier year.

CAUTION

Post-2008 decree or agreement. If the divorce decree or
separation agreement went into effect after 2008, the noncustodial parent can't include pages from the decree or agreement instead of Form 8332. The custodial parent must sign either Form
8332 or a substantially similar statement the only purpose of
which is to release the custodial parent's claim to certain tax
benefits for a child, and the noncustodial parent must include a
copy with their return. The form or statement must release the
custodial parent's claim to the child without any conditions. For
example, the release must not depend on the noncustodial parent paying support.
Release of certain tax benefits revoked. A custodial parent
who has revoked their previous release of a claim to certain tax
benefits for a child must include a copy of the revocation with
their return. For details, see Form 8332.
Exception to citizen test. If you are a U.S. citizen or U.S. national and your adopted child lived with you all year as a member of your household, that child meets the requirement to be a
U.S. citizen in Step 2, question 1; Step 3, question 2; Step 4,
question 2; and Step 5, question 2.
Exception to gross income test. If your relative (including a
person who lived with you all year as a member of your household) is permanently and totally disabled (defined later), certain
income for services performed at a sheltered workshop may be
excluded for this test. For details, see Pub. 501.
Exception to time lived with you. Temporary absences by you
or the other person for special circumstances, such as school,
vacation, business, medical care, military service, or detention
in a juvenile facility, count as time the person lived with you.
Also see Children of divorced or separated parents, earlier, or
Kidnapped child, later.
If the person meets all other requirements to be your qualifying child but was born or died in 2022, the person is considered
to have lived with you for more than half of 2022 if your home
was this person's home for more than half the time the person
was alive in 2022. If the person meets all other requirements to
be your qualifying child but you adopted the person in 2022, the
person was lawfully placed with you for legal adoption by you
in 2022, or the person was an eligible foster child placed with
you during 2022, the person is considered to have lived with
you for more than half of 2022 if your main home was this person's main home for more than half the time since the person
was adopted or placed with you in 2022.
Any other person is considered to have lived with you for all
of 2022 if the person was born or died in 2022 and your home
was this person's home for the entire time the person was alive

-20-

in 2022 or if you adopted the person in 2022, the person was
lawfully placed with you for legal adoption by you in 2022, or
the person was an eligible foster child placed with you during
2022 and your main home was the person's main home for the
entire time since the person was adopted or placed with you in
2022.
Foster child. A foster child is any child placed with you by an
authorized placement agency or by judgment, decree, or other
order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
Kidnapped child. If your child is presumed by law enforcement authorities to have been kidnapped by someone who isn't a
family member, you may be able to take the child into account
in determining your eligibility for head of household or qualifying surviving spouse filing status, the child tax credit, the credit
for other dependents, and the earned income credit (EIC). For
details, see Pub. 501 (Pub. 596 for the EIC).
Married person. If the person is married and files a joint return, you can't claim that person as your dependent. However, if
the person is married but doesn't file a joint return or files a
joint return only to claim a refund of withheld income tax or estimated tax paid, you may be able to claim that person as a dependent. (See Pub. 501 for details and examples.) In that case,
go to Step 2, question 3 (for a qualifying child), or Step 4, question 4 (for a qualifying relative).
Multiple support agreements. If no one person contributed
over half of the support of your relative (or a person who lived
with you all year as a member of your household) but you and
another person(s) provided more than half of your relative's
support, special rules may apply that would treat you as having
provided over half of the support. For details, see Pub. 501.
Permanently and totally disabled. A person is permanently
and totally disabled if, at any time in 2022, the person can't engage in any substantial gainful activity because of a physical or
mental condition and a doctor has determined that this condition
has lasted or can be expected to last continuously for at least a
year or can be expected to lead to death.
Public assistance payments. If you received payments under
the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program
or other public assistance program and you used the money to
support another person, see Pub. 501.
Qualifying child of more than one person. Even if a child
meets the conditions to be the qualifying child of more than one
person, only one person can claim the child as a qualifying child
for all of the following tax benefits, unless the special rule for
Children of divorced or separated parents, described earlier,
applies.
1. Child tax credit and credit for other dependents (line 19)
and additional child tax credit (line 28).
2. Head of household filing status.
3. Credit for child and dependent care expenses (Schedule
3, line 2).
4. Exclusion for dependent care benefits (Form 2441, Part
III).
5. Earned income credit (line 27).

No other person can take any of the five tax benefits just listed
based on the qualifying child. If you and any other person can
claim the child as a qualifying child, the following rules apply.
For purposes of these rules, the term "parent" means a biological or adoptive parent of an individual. It doesn't include a stepparent or foster parent unless that person has adopted the individual.
• If only one of the persons is the child's parent, the child is
treated as the qualifying child of the parent.
• If the parents file a joint return together and can claim the
child as a qualifying child, the child is treated as the qualifying
child of the parents.
• If the parents don’t file a joint return together but both parents claim the child as a qualifying child, the IRS will treat the
child as the qualifying child of the parent with whom the child
lived for the longer period of time in 2022. If the child lived
with each parent for the same amount of time, the IRS will treat
the child as the qualifying child of the parent who had the higher adjusted gross income (AGI) for 2022.
• If no parent can claim the child as a qualifying child, the
child is treated as the qualifying child of the person who had the
highest AGI for 2022.
• If a parent can claim the child as a qualifying child but no
parent does so claim the child, the child is treated as the qualifying child of the person who had the highest AGI for 2022, but
only if that person's AGI is higher than the highest AGI of any
parent of the child who can claim the child.
Example. Your child, J, meets the conditions to be a qualifying child for both you and your parent. J doesn't meet the conditions to be a qualifying child of any other person, including
J’s other parent. Under the rules just described, you can claim J
as a qualifying child for all of the five tax benefits just listed for
which you otherwise qualify. Your parent can't claim any of
those five tax benefits based on J. However, if your parent’s
AGI is higher than yours and you do not claim J as a qualifying
child, J is the qualifying child of your parent.
For more details and examples, see Pub. 501.
If you will be claiming the child as a qualifying child, go to
Step 2. Otherwise, stop; you can't claim any benefits based on
this child.
Social security number. You must enter each dependent's social security number (SSN). Be sure the name and SSN entered
agree with the dependent's social security card. Otherwise, at
the time we process your return, we may reduce or disallow any
tax benefits (such as the child tax credit) based on that dependent. If the name or SSN on the dependent's social security card
isn't correct or you need to get an SSN for your dependent, contact the Social Security Administration (SSA). See Social Security Number (SSN), earlier. If your dependent won't have a
number by the date your return is due, see What if You Can't
File on Time? earlier.
For the child tax credit, your child must have the required
SSN. The required SSN is one that is valid for employment and
that is issued by the SSA before the due date of your 2022 return (including extensions). If your child was a U.S. citizen
when the child received the SSN, the SSN is valid for employment. If “Not Valid for Employment” is printed on your child’s

-21-

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

social security card and your child’s immigration status has
changed so that your child is now a U.S. citizen or permanent
resident, ask the SSA for a new social security card without the
legend. However, if “Valid for Work Only With DHS Authorization” is printed on your child’s social security card, your child
has the required SSN only as long as the DHS authorization is
valid.
If your dependent child was born and died in 2022 and you
do not have an SSN for the child, enter “Died” in column (2) of
the Dependents section and include a copy of the child's birth
certificate, death certificate, or hospital records. The document
must show the child was born alive.
If you, or your spouse if filing jointly, didn't have an SSN (or
ITIN) issued on or before the due date of your 2022 return (in-

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

cluding extensions), you can't claim the child tax credit or the
credit for other dependents on your original or an amended
2022 return.
If you apply for an ITIN on or before the due date of your
2022 return (including extensions) and the IRS issues you an
ITIN as a result of the application, the IRS will consider your
ITIN as issued on or before the due date of your return.
Student. A student is a child who during any part of 5 calendar
months of 2022 was enrolled as a full-time student at a school
or took a full-time, on-farm training course given by a school or
a state, county, or local government agency. A school includes a
technical, trade, or mechanical school. It doesn't include an
on-the-job training course, correspondence school, or school offering courses only through the Internet.

-22-

Income
Generally, you must report all income
except income that is exempt from tax
by law. For details, see the following instructions and the Schedule 1 instructions, especially the instructions for lines
1 through 7 and Schedule 1, lines 1
through 8z. Also see Pub. 525.

Forgiveness of Paycheck
Protection Program (PPP)
Loans
The forgiveness of a PPP Loan creates
tax-exempt income, so although you
don’t need to report the income from the
forgiveness of your PPP Loan on Form
1040 or 1040-SR, you do need to report
certain information related to your PPP
Loan.
Rev. Proc. 2021-48, 2021-49 I.R.B.
835, permits taxpayers to treat tax-exempt income resulting from the forgiveness of a PPP Loan as received or accrued: (1) as, and to the extent that, eligible expenses are paid or incurred; (2)
when you apply for forgiveness of the
PPP Loan; or (3) when forgiveness of
the PPP Loan is granted. If you have
tax-exempt income resulting from the
forgiveness of a PPP Loan, attach a
statement to your return reporting each
taxable year for which you are applying
Rev. Proc. 2021-48, and which section
of Rev. Proc. 2021-48 you are applying—either section 3.01(1), (2), or (3).
Any statement should include the following information for each PPP Loan:
1. Your name, address, and ITIN or
SSN;
2. A statement that you are applying
or applied section 3.01(1), (2), or (3) of
Rev. Proc. 2021-48, and for what taxable year;
3. The amount of tax-exempt income from forgiveness of the PPP Loan
that you are treating as received or accrued and for what taxable year; and
4. Whether forgiveness of the PPP
Loan has been granted as of the date you
file your return.
Write “RP2021-48” at the top of your
attached statement.

Foreign-Source Income
You must report unearned income, such
as interest, dividends, and pensions,
from sources outside the United States
unless exempt by law or a tax treaty.
You must also report earned income,
such as wages and tips, from sources
outside the United States.
If you worked abroad, you may be
able to exclude part or all of your foreign earned income. For details, see
Pub. 54 and Form 2555.
Foreign retirement plans. If you were
a beneficiary of a foreign retirement
plan, you may have to report the undistributed income earned in your plan.
However, if you were the beneficiary of
a Canadian registered retirement plan,
see Rev. Proc. 2014-55, 2014-44 I.R.B.
753,
available
at
IRS.gov/irb/
2014-44_IRB#RP-2014-55, to find out if
you can elect to defer tax on the undistributed income.
Report distributions from foreign
pension plans on lines 5a and 5b.
Foreign accounts and trusts. You
must complete Part III of Schedule B if
you:
• Had a foreign account; or
• Received a distribution from, or
were a grantor of, or a transferor to, a
foreign trust.
Foreign financial assets. If you had
foreign financial assets in 2022, you
may have to file Form 8938. See Form
8938 and its instructions.

Chapter 11 Bankruptcy
Cases
If you are a debtor in a chapter 11 bankruptcy case, income taxable to the bankruptcy estate and reported on the estate's
income tax return includes:
• Earnings from services you performed after the beginning of the case
(both wages and self-employment income); and
• Income from property described in
section 541 of title 11 of the U.S. Code
that you either owned when the case began or that you acquired after the case
began and before the case was closed,
dismissed, or converted to a case under a
different chapter.
Because this income is taxable to the
estate, don’t include this income on your
-23-

own individual income tax return. The
only exception is for purposes of figuring your self-employment tax. For that
purpose, you must take into account all
your self-employment income for the
year from services performed both before and after the beginning of the case.
Also, you (or the trustee if one is appointed) must allocate between you and
the bankruptcy estate the wages, salary,
or other compensation and withheld income tax reported to you on Form W-2.
A similar allocation is required for income and withheld income tax reported
to you on Forms 1099. You must also
include a statement that indicates you
filed a chapter 11 case and that explains
how income and withheld income tax reported to you on Forms W-2 and 1099
are allocated between you and the estate.
For more details, including acceptable
allocation methods, see Notice 2006-83,
2006-40 I.R.B. 596, available at
IRS.gov/irb/
2006-40_IRB#NOT-2006-83.

Community Property States
Community property states include Arizona, California, Idaho, Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, Washington,
and Wisconsin. If you and your spouse
lived in a community property state, you
must usually follow state law to determine what is community income and
what is separate income. For details, see
Form 8958 and Pub. 555.
Nevada, Washington, and California
domestic partners. A registered domestic partner in Nevada, Washington,
or California must generally report half
the combined community income of the
individual and their domestic partner.
See Form 8958 and Pub. 555.

Rounding Off to Whole
Dollars
You can round off cents to whole dollars
on your return and schedules. If you do
round to whole dollars, you must round
all amounts. To round, drop amounts under 50 cents and increase amounts from
50 to 99 cents to the next dollar. For example, $1.39 becomes $1 and $2.50 becomes $3.
If you have to add two or more
amounts to figure the amount to enter on
a line, include cents when adding the
amounts and round off only the total.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

If you are entering amounts that include cents, make sure to include the
decimal point. There is no cents column
on the form.
The lines on Forms 1040 and
1040-SR are the same. ReferenCAUTION ces to lines in the following instructions refer to the line on either
form.

!

Line 1a
Total Amount From Form(s)
W-2, Box 1
Enter the total amount from Form(s)
W-2, box 1. If a joint return, also include your spouse's income from
Form(s) W-2, box 1.
If you earned wages while you
were an inmate in a penal instiCAUTION tution, you will now report
these amounts on Schedule 1, line 8u.
Do not report those wages on line 1a.
See the instructions for Schedule 1,
line 8u.

!

If you received a pension or annuity from a nonqualified deCAUTION ferred compensation plan or a
nongovernmental section 457(b) plan
and it was reported in box 1 of Form
W-2, do not include this amount on
Form 1040, line 1a. This amount is reported on Schedule 1, line 8t.

!

Line 1b
Household Employee
Wages Not Reported on
Form(s) W-2
Enter the total of your wages received as
a household employee that was not reported on Form(s) W-2. An employer
isn’t required to provide a Form W-2 to
you if they paid you wages of less than
$2,400 in 2022. For information on employment taxes for household employees, see Tax Topic 756.

Line 1c
Tip Income Not Reported on
Line 1a

This should include any tip income you
didn’t report to your employer and any
allocated tips shown in box 8 on your
Form(s) W-2 unless you can prove that
your unreported tips are less than the
amount in box 8. Allocated tips aren't included as income in box 1. See Pub. 531
for more details. Also include the value
of any noncash tips you received, such
as tickets, passes, or other items of value. Although you don’t report these noncash tips to your employer, you must report them on line 1c.
You may owe social security
and Medicare or railroad reCAUTION tirement (RRTA) tax on unreported tips. See the instructions for
Schedule 2, line 5.

!

Line 1d
Medicaid Waiver Payments
Not Reported on Form(s)
W-2, Box 1
Enter your taxable Medicaid waiver
payments that were not reported on
Form(s) W-2. Also enter the total of
your taxable and nontaxable Medicaid
waiver payments that were not reported
on Form(s) W-2, or not reported in
box 1 of Form(s) W-2, if you choose to
include nontaxable payments in earned
income for purposes of claiming a credit
or other tax benefit. If you and your
spouse both received nontaxable Medicaid waiver payments during the year,
you and your spouse can make different
choices about including payments in
earned income. See the instructions for
Schedule 1, line 8s.

Line 1e
Taxable Dependent Care
Benefits From Form 2441,
Line 26
Enter the total of your taxable dependent
care benefits from Form 2441, line 26.
Dependent care benefits should be
shown in box 10 of your Form(s) W-2.
But first complete Form 2441 to see if
you can exclude part or all of the benefits.

Enter the total of your tip income that
was not reported on Form 1040, line 1a.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

-24-

Line 1f
Employer-Provided
Adoption Benefits From
Form 8839, Line 29
Enter the total of your employer-provided adoption benefits from Form 8839,
line 29. Employer-provided adoption
benefits should be shown in box 12 of
your Form(s) W-2 with code T. But see
the Instructions for Form 8839 to find
out if you can exclude part or all of the
benefits. You may also be able to exclude amounts if you adopted a child
with special needs and the adoption became final in 2022.

Line 1g
Wages From Form 8919,
Line 6
Enter the total of your wages from Form
8919, line 6.

Line 1h
Other Earned Income
If you received scholarship or

TIP fellowship grants that were not
reported to you on Form W-2,
you will now report these amounts on
Schedule 1, line 8r. See the instructions
for Schedule 1, line 8r.
The following types of income must
be included in the total on line 1h.
• Strike or lockout benefits (other
than bona fide gifts).
• Excess elective deferrals. The
amount deferred should be shown in
box 12 of your Form W-2, and the “Retirement plan” box in box 13 should be
checked. If the total amount you (or
your spouse if filing jointly) deferred for
2022 under all plans was more than
$20,500 (excluding catch-up contributions as explained later), include the excess on line 1h. This limit is (a) $14,000
if you have only SIMPLE plans, or (b)
$23,500 for section 403(b) plans if you
qualify for the 15-year rule in Pub. 571.
Although designated Roth contributions
are subject to this limit, don’t include
the excess attributable to such contributions on line 1h. They are already included as income in box 1 of your Form
W-2.

A higher limit may apply to participants in section 457(b) deferred compensation plans for the 3 years before retirement age. Contact your plan administrator for more information.
If you were age 50 or older at the end
of 2022, your employer may have allowed an additional deferral (catch-up
contributions) of up to $6,500 ($3,000
for section 401(k)(11) and SIMPLE
plans). This additional deferral amount
isn't subject to the overall limit on elective deferrals.
You can't deduct the amount
deferred. It isn't included as inCAUTION come in box 1 of your Form
W-2.

!

• Disability pensions shown on
Form 1099-R if you haven’t reached the
minimum retirement age set by your
employer. But see Insurance Premiums
for Retired Public Safety Officers in the
instructions for lines 5a and 5b.
Disability pensions received after you
reach minimum retirement age and other
payments shown on Form 1099-R (other
than payments from an IRA*) are
reported on lines 5a and 5b. Payments
from an IRA are reported on lines 4a
and 4b.
• Corrective distributions from a
retirement plan shown on Form 1099-R
of excess elective deferrals and excess
contributions (plus earnings). But don’t
include distributions from an IRA* on
line 1h. Instead, report distributions
from an IRA on lines 4a and 4b.
*This includes a Roth, SEP, or SIMPLE IRA.

Line 1i
Nontaxable Combat Pay
Election
If you elect to include your nontaxable
combat pay in your earned income when
figuring the EIC, enter the amount on
line 1i. See the instructions for line 27.

Were You a Statutory
Employee?
If you were a statutory employee, the
“Statutory employee” box in box 13 of
your Form W-2 should be checked. Statutory employees include full-time life
insurance salespeople and certain agent

or commission drivers, certain traveling
salespeople, and certain homeworkers.
Statutory employees report the amount
shown in box 1 of Form W-2 on a
Schedule C along with any related business expenses.

!

Line 2b
Taxable Interest

Missing or Incorrect
Form W-2?
Your employer is required to provide or
send Form W-2 to you no later than
January 31, 2023. If you don’t receive it
by early February, use Tax Topic 154 to
find out what to do. Even if you don’t
get a Form W-2, you must still report
your earnings. If you lose your Form
W-2 or it is incorrect, ask your employer
for a new one.

Line 2a
Tax-Exempt Interest
If you received any tax-exempt interest
(including any tax-exempt original issue
discount (OID)), such as from municipal
bonds, each payer should send you a
Form 1099-INT or a Form 1099-OID. In
general, your tax-exempt stated interest
should be shown in box 8 of Form
1099-INT or, for a tax-exempt OID
bond, in box 2 of Form 1099-OID, and
your tax-exempt OID should be shown
in box 11 of Form 1099-OID. Enter the
total on line 2a. However, if you acquired a tax-exempt bond at a premium,
only report the net amount of tax-exempt interest on line 2a (that is, the excess of the tax-exempt interest received
during the year over the amortized bond
premium for the year). Also, if you acquired a tax-exempt OID bond at an acquisition premium, only report the net
amount of tax-exempt OID on line 2a
(that is, the excess of tax-exempt OID
for the year over the amortized acquisition premium for the year). See Pub. 550
for more information about OID, bond
premium, and acquisition premium.
Also include on line 2a any exempt-interest dividends from a mutual
fund or other regulated investment company. This amount should be shown in
box 12 of Form 1099-DIV.
Don’t include interest earned on your
IRA, health savings account, Archer or
Medicare Advantage MSA, or Coverdell
education savings account.
-25-

Don’t include any amounts related to the forgiveness of PPP
CAUTION Loans on this line.

Each payer should send you a Form
1099-INT or Form 1099-OID. Enter
your total taxable interest income on
line 2b. But you must fill in and attach
Schedule B if the total is over $1,500 or
any of the other conditions listed at the
beginning of the Schedule B instructions
applies to you.
For more details about reporting taxable interest, including market discount
on bonds and adjustments for amortizable bond premium or acquisition premium, see Pub. 550.
Interest credited in 2022 on deposits
that you couldn't withdraw because of
the bankruptcy or insolvency of the financial institution may not have to be
included in your 2022 income. For details, see Pub. 550.
If you get a 2022 Form

TIP 1099-INT for U.S. savings bond
interest that includes amounts
you reported before 2022, see Pub. 550.

Line 3a
Qualified Dividends
Enter your total qualified dividends on
line 3a. Qualified dividends are also included in the ordinary dividend total required to be shown on line 3b. Qualified
dividends are eligible for a lower tax
rate than other ordinary income. Generally, these dividends are shown in
box 1b of Form(s) 1099-DIV. See Pub.
550 for the definition of qualified dividends if you received dividends not reported on Form 1099-DIV.
Exception. Some dividends may be reported as qualified dividends in box 1b
of Form 1099-DIV but aren't qualified
dividends. These include:
• Dividends you received as a nominee. See the Schedule B instructions.
• Dividends you received on any
share of stock that you held for less than
61 days during the 121-day period that
began 60 days before the ex-dividend
date. The ex-dividend date is the first

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

date following the declaration of a dividend on which the purchaser of a stock
isn't entitled to receive the next dividend
payment. When counting the number of
days you held the stock, include the day
you disposed of the stock but not the day
you acquired it. See the examples that
follow. Also, when counting the number
of days you held the stock, you can't
count certain days during which your
risk of loss was diminished. See Pub.
550 for more details.
• Dividends attributable to periods
totaling more than 366 days that you received on any share of preferred stock
held for less than 91 days during the
181-day period that began 90 days before the ex-dividend date. When counting the number of days you held the
stock, you can't count certain days during which your risk of loss was diminished. See Pub. 550 for more details.
Preferred dividends attributable to periods totaling less than 367 days are subject to the 61-day holding period rule
just described.
• Dividends on any share of stock to
the extent that you are under an obligation (including a short sale) to make related payments with respect to positions
in substantially similar or related property.
• Payments in lieu of dividends, but
only if you know or have reason to
know that the payments aren't qualified
dividends.
• Dividends from a corporation that
first became a surrogate foreign corporation after December 22, 2017, other than
a foreign corporation that is treated as a
domestic corporation under section
7874(b).
Example 1. You bought 5,000 shares
of XYZ Corp. common stock on July 8,
2022. XYZ Corp. paid a cash dividend
of 10 cents per share. The ex-dividend
date was July 16, 2022. Your Form
1099-DIV from XYZ Corp. shows $500
in box 1a (ordinary dividends) and in
box 1b (qualified dividends). However,
you sold the 5,000 shares on August 11,
2022. You held your shares of XYZ
Corp. for only 34 days of the 121-day
period (from July 9, 2022, through August 11, 2022). The 121-day period began on May 17, 2022 (60 days before
the ex-dividend date), and ended on
September 14, 2022. You have no qualified dividends from XYZ Corp. because

you held the XYZ stock for less than 61
days.
Example 2. The facts are the same as
in Example 1 except that you bought the
stock on July 15, 2022 (the day before
the ex-dividend date), and you sold the
stock on September 16, 2022. You held
the stock for 63 days (from July 16,
2022, through September 16, 2022). The
$500 of qualified dividends shown in
box 1b of Form 1099-DIV are all qualified dividends because you held the
stock for 61 days of the 121-day period
(from July 16, 2022, through September
14, 2022).
Example 3. You bought 10,000
shares of ABC Mutual Fund common
stock on July 8, 2022. ABC Mutual
Fund paid a cash dividend of 10 cents a
share. The ex-dividend date was July 16,
2022. The ABC Mutual Fund advises
you that the part of the dividend eligible
to be treated as qualified dividends
equals 2 cents a share. Your Form
1099-DIV from ABC Mutual Fund
shows total ordinary dividends of $1,000
and qualified dividends of $200. However, you sold the 10,000 shares on August 11, 2022. You have no qualified
dividends from ABC Mutual Fund because you held the ABC Mutual Fund
stock for less than 61 days.
Use the Qualified Dividends

TIP and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet or the Schedule D Tax
Worksheet, whichever applies, to figure
your tax. See the instructions for line 16
for details.

Line 3b
Ordinary Dividends
Each payer should send you a Form
1099-DIV. Enter your total ordinary dividends on line 3b. This amount should
be shown in box 1a of Form(s)
1099-DIV.
You must fill in and attach Schedule B if the total is over $1,500 or you
received, as a nominee, ordinary dividends that actually belong to someone
else.
Nondividend Distributions
Some distributions are a return of your
cost (or other basis). They won't be

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

-26-

taxed until you recover your cost (or
other basis). You must reduce your cost
(or other basis) by these distributions.
After you get back all of your cost (or
other basis), you must report these distributions as capital gains on Form 8949.
For details, see Pub. 550.
Dividends on insurance poli-

TIP cies are a partial return of the
premiums you paid. Don’t report them as dividends. Include them in
income on Schedule 1, line 8z, only if
they exceed the total of all net premiums
you paid for the contract.

Lines 4a and 4b
IRA Distributions
You should receive a Form 1099-R
showing the total amount of any distribution from your IRA before income tax
or other deductions were withheld. This
amount should be shown in box 1 of
Form 1099-R. Unless otherwise noted in
the line 4a and 4b instructions, an IRA
includes a traditional IRA, Roth IRA,
simplified employee pension (SEP)
IRA, and a savings incentive match plan
for employees (SIMPLE) IRA. Except
as provided next, leave line 4a blank and
enter the total distribution (from Form
1099-R, box 1) on line 4b.
Exception 1. Enter the total distribution
on line 4a if you rolled over part or all of
the distribution from one:
• Roth IRA to another Roth IRA, or
• IRA (other than a Roth IRA) to a
qualified plan or another IRA (other
than a Roth IRA).
Also enter “Rollover” next to line 4b.
If the total distribution was rolled over,
enter -0- on line 4b. If the total distribution wasn't rolled over, enter the part not
rolled over on line 4b unless Exception 2
applies to the part not rolled over. Generally, a rollover must be made within
60 days after the day you received the
distribution. For more details on rollovers, see Pub. 590-A and Pub. 590-B.
If you rolled over the distribution into
a qualified plan or you made the rollover
in 2023, include a statement explaining
what you did.
Exception 2. If any of the following apply, enter the total distribution on line 4a
and see Form 8606 and its instructions
to figure the amount to enter on line 4b.

1. You received a distribution from
an IRA (other than a Roth IRA) and you
made nondeductible contributions to any
of your traditional or SEP IRAs for 2022
or an earlier year. If you made nondeductible contributions to these IRAs for
2022, also see Pub. 590-A and Pub.
590-B.
2. You received a distribution from
a Roth IRA. But if either (a) or (b) below applies, enter -0- on line 4b; you
don’t have to see Form 8606 or its instructions.
a. Distribution code T is shown in
box 7 of Form 1099-R and you made a
contribution (including a conversion) to
a Roth IRA for 2016 or an earlier year.
b. Distribution code Q is shown in
box 7 of Form 1099-R.
3. You converted part or all of a traditional, SEP, or SIMPLE IRA to a Roth
IRA in 2022.
4. You had a 2021 or 2022 IRA contribution returned to you, with the related earnings or less any loss, by the due
date (including extensions) of your tax
return for that year.
5. You made excess contributions to
your IRA for an earlier year and had
them returned to you in 2022.
6. You recharacterized part or all of
a contribution to a Roth IRA as a contribution to another type of IRA, or vice
versa.
Exception 3. If all or part of the distribution is a qualified charitable distribution (QCD), enter the total distribution
on line 4a. If the total amount distributed
is a QCD, enter -0- on line 4b. If only
part of the distribution is a QCD, enter
the part that is not a QCD on line 4b unless Exception 2 applies to that part. Enter “QCD” next to line 4b.
A QCD is a distribution made directly by the trustee of your IRA (other than
an ongoing SEP or SIMPLE IRA) to an
organization eligible to receive tax-deductible contributions (with certain exceptions). You must have been at least
age 70 1/2 when the distribution was
made.
Generally, your total QCDs for the
year can't be more than $100,000. (On a
joint return, your spouse can also have a
QCD of up to $100,000.) The amount of
the QCD is limited to the amount that

would otherwise be included in your income. If your IRA includes nondeductible contributions, the distribution is first
considered to be paid out of otherwise
taxable income. See Pub. 590-B for details.
You can't claim a charitable
contribution deduction for any
CAUTION QCD not included in your income.

!

Exception 4. If all or part of the distribution is a health savings account (HSA)
funding distribution (HFD), enter the total distribution on line 4a. If the total
amount distributed is an HFD and you
elect to exclude it from income, enter -0on line 4b. If only part of the distribution is an HFD and you elect to exclude
that part from income, enter the part that
isn't an HFD on line 4b unless Exception
2 applies to that part. Enter “HFD” next
to line 4b.
An HFD is a distribution made directly by the trustee of your IRA (other
than an ongoing SEP or SIMPLE IRA)
to your HSA. If eligible, you can generally elect to exclude an HFD from your
income once in your lifetime. You can't
exclude more than the limit on HSA
contributions or more than the amount
that would otherwise be included in your
income. If your IRA includes nondeductible contributions, the HFD is first considered to be paid out of otherwise taxable income. See Pub. 969 for details.
The amount of an HFD reduces
the amount you can contribute
CAUTION to your HSA for the year. If you
fail to maintain eligibility for an HSA
for the 12 months following the month of
the HFD, you may have to report the
HFD as income and pay an additional
tax. See Form 8889, Part III.

!

More than one exception applies. If
more than one exception applies, include
a statement showing the amount of each
exception, instead of making an entry
next to line 4b. For example: “Line 4b –
$1,000 Rollover and $500 HFD.” But
you do not need to attach a statement if
only Exception 2 and one other exception apply.
More than one distribution. If you (or
your spouse if filing jointly) received
more than one distribution, figure the
taxable amount of each distribution and

-27-

enter the total of the taxable amounts on
line 4b. Enter the total amount of those
distributions on line 4a.
You may have to pay an additional tax if you received an
CAUTION early distribution from your
IRA and the total wasn't rolled over. See
the instructions for Schedule 2, line 8,
for details.

!

More information. For more information about IRAs, see Pub. 590-A and
Pub. 590-B.

Lines 5a and 5b
Pensions and Annuities
You should receive a Form 1099-R
showing the total amount of your pension and annuity payments before income tax or other deductions were withheld. This amount should be shown in
box 1 of Form 1099-R. Pension and annuity payments include distributions
from 401(k), 403(b), and governmental
457(b) plans. Rollovers and lump-sum
distributions are explained later. Don’t
include the following payments on lines
5a and 5b. Instead, report them on
line 1h.
• Disability pensions received before
you reach the minimum retirement age
set by your employer.
• Corrective distributions (including
any earnings) of excess elective deferrals or other excess contributions to retirement plans. The plan must advise
you of the year(s) the distributions are
includible in income.
Attach

Form(s)

1099-R

to

TIP Form 1040 or 1040-SR if any
federal income tax was withheld.
Fully Taxable Pensions and
Annuities
Your payments are fully taxable if (a)
you didn't contribute to the cost (see
Cost, later) of your pension or annuity,
or (b) you got your entire cost back tax
free before 2022. But see Insurance Premiums for Retired Public Safety Officers, later. If your pension or annuity is
fully taxable, enter the total pension or
annuity payments (from Form(s)
1099-R, box 1) on line 5b; don’t make
an entry on line 5a.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Fully taxable pensions and annuities
also include military retirement pay
shown on Form 1099-R. For details on
military disability pensions, see Pub.
525. If you received a Form
RRB-1099-R, see Pub. 575 to find out
how to report your benefits.
Partially Taxable Pensions and
Annuities
Enter the total pension or annuity payments (from Form 1099-R, box 1) on
line 5a. If your Form 1099-R doesn't
show the taxable amount, you must use
the General Rule explained in Pub. 939
to figure the taxable part to enter on
line 5b. But if your annuity starting date
(defined later) was after July 1, 1986,
see Simplified Method, later, to find out
if you must use that method to figure the
taxable part.
You can ask the IRS to figure the taxable part for you for a $1,000 fee. For
details, see Pub. 939.
If your Form 1099-R shows a taxable
amount, you can report that amount on
line 5b. But you may be able to report a
lower taxable amount by using the General Rule or the Simplified Method or if
the exclusion for retired public safety officers, discussed next, applies.
Insurance Premiums for Retired
Public Safety Officers
If you are an eligible retired public safety officer (law enforcement officer, firefighter, chaplain, or member of a rescue
squad or ambulance crew), you can elect
to exclude from income distributions
made from your eligible retirement plan
that are used to pay the premiums for
coverage by an accident or health plan
or a long-term care insurance contract.
You can do this only if you retired because of disability or because you
reached normal retirement age. The premiums can be for coverage for you, your
spouse, or dependents. The distribution
must be from a plan maintained by the
employer from which you retired as a
public safety officer. Also, the distribution must be made directly from the plan
to the provider of the accident or health
plan or long-term care insurance contract. You can exclude from income the
smaller of the amount of the premiums
or $3,000. You can make this election

only for amounts that would otherwise
be included in your income.
An eligible retirement plan is a governmental plan that is a qualified trust or
a section 403(a), 403(b), or 457(b) plan.
If you make this election, reduce the
otherwise taxable amount of your pension or annuity by the amount excluded.
The amount shown in box 2a of Form
1099-R doesn't reflect the exclusion. Report your total distributions on line 5a
and the taxable amount on line 5b. Enter
“PSO” next to line 5b.
If you are retired on disability and reporting your disability pension on
line 1h, include only the taxable amount
on that line and enter “PSO” and the
amount excluded on the dotted line next
to line 1h.
Payments when you are disabled. If
you receive payments from a retirement
or profit-sharing plan that does not provide for disability retirement, do not
treat those payments as disability payments. The payments must be reported
as a pension or annuity.
You must include in your income any
amounts that you received that you
would have received in retirement had
you not become disabled as a result of a
terrorist attack. Include in your income
any payments you receive from a
401(k), pension, or other retirement plan
to the extent that you would have received the amount at the same or later
time regardless of whether you had become disabled.
Example. Taxpayer J, a contractor,
was disabled as a direct result of participating in efforts to clean up the World
Trade Center. J is eligible for compensation by the September 11 Victim Compensation Fund. J began receiving a disability pension at age 55 when J could
no longer continue working because of
J’s disability. Under J’s pension plan, at
age 55, J is entitled to an early retirement benefit of $2,500. If J waits until
age 62, normal retirement age under the
plan, J would be entitled to a normal retirement benefit of $3,000 a month. The
pension plan provides that a participant
who retires early on account of disability
is entitled to receive the participant's
normal retirement benefit, which in J's
case equals $3,000 per month. Until J
turns age 62, J can exclude $500 of the

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

-28-

monthly retirement benefit from income
(the difference between the early retirement benefit and the normal retirement
benefit, $3,000 - $2,500) received on account of disability. J must report the remaining $2,500 of monthly pension benefit as taxable. For each month after J
turns age 62, J must report the full
amount of the monthly pension benefit
($3,000 a month) as taxable.
Simplified Method
You must use the Simplified Method if
either of the following applies.
1. Your annuity starting date was after July 1, 1986, and you used this method last year to figure the taxable part.
2. Your annuity starting date was after November 18, 1996, and both of the
following apply.
a. The payments are from a qualified employee plan, a qualified employee annuity, or a tax-sheltered annuity.
b. On your annuity starting date, either you were under age 75 or the number of years of guaranteed payments was
fewer than 5. See Pub. 575 for the definition of guaranteed payments.
If you must use the Simplified Method, complete the Simplified Method
Worksheet in these instructions to figure
the taxable part of your pension or annuity. For more details on the Simplified
Method, see Pub. 575 (or Pub. 721 for
U.S. Civil Service retirement benefits).
If you received U.S. Civil Service retirement benefits and you
CAUTION chose the alternative annuity
option, see Pub. 721 to figure the taxable part of your annuity. Do not use the
Simplified Method Worksheet in these
instructions.

!

Annuity Starting Date
Your annuity starting date is the later of
the first day of the first period for which
you received a payment or the date the
plan's obligations became fixed.
Age (or Combined Ages) at
Annuity Starting Date
If you are the retiree, use your age on
the annuity starting date. If you are the
survivor of a retiree, use the retiree's age
on their annuity starting date. But if your

Keep for Your Records

Simplified Method Worksheet—Lines 5a and 5b
Before you begin:

If you are the beneficiary of a deceased employee or former employee who died before August 21, 1996, include
any death benefit exclusion that you are entitled to (up to $5,000) in the amount entered on line 2 below.
More than one pension or annuity. If you had more than one partially taxable pension or annuity, figure the taxable part of each separately. Enter
the total of the taxable parts on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 5b. Enter the total pension or annuity payments received in 2022 on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 5a.
1. Enter the total pension or annuity payments from Form 1099-R, box 1. Also, enter this amount on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 5a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. .

1.

. . . . . .

8.

9. Taxable amount. Subtract line 8 from line 1. Enter the result, but not less than zero. Also, enter this amount on Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 5b. If your Form 1099-R shows a larger amount, use the amount on this line instead of the
amount from Form 1099-R. If you are a retired public safety officer, see Insurance Premiums for Retired Public
Safety Officers before entering an amount on line 5b . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

9.

2. Enter your cost in the plan at the annuity starting date . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Note. If you completed this worksheet last year, skip line 3 and enter the amount from line 4
of last year’s worksheet on line 4 below (even if the amount of your pension or annuity has
changed). Otherwise, go to line 3.

2.

3. Enter the appropriate number from Table 1 below. But if your annuity starting date was after
1997 and the payments are for your life and that of your beneficiary, enter the appropriate
number from Table 2 below . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Divide line 2 by the number on line 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
5. Multiply line 4 by the number of months for which this year’s payments were made. If your
annuity starting date was before 1987, skip lines 6 and 7 and enter this amount on line 8.
Otherwise, go to line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.
6. Enter the amount, if any, recovered tax free in years after 1986. If you completed this
worksheet last year, enter the amount from line 10 of last year’s worksheet . . . . . . 6.
7. Subtract line 6 from line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.
8. Enter the smaller of line 5 or line 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

10. Was your annuity starting date before 1987?
Yes.

STOP

No.

Add lines 6 and 8. This is the amount you have recovered tax free through 2022. You will need this
number if you need to fill out this worksheet next year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . 10.

11. Balance of cost to be recovered. Subtract line 10 from line 2. If zero, you won’t have to complete this
worksheet next year. The payments you receive next year will generally be fully taxable . . . . . .

. . 11.

Do not complete the rest of this worksheet.

Table 1 for Line 3 Above
IF the age at annuity starting
date was . . .
55 or under
56–60
61–65
66–70
71 or older

AND your annuity starting date was—
before November 19, 1996,
after November 18, 1996,
enter on line 3 . . .
enter on line 3 . . .
300
360
260
310
240
260
170
210
120
160
Table 2 for Line 3 Above

IF the combined ages at annuity
starting date were . . .
110 or under
111–120
121–130
131–140
141 or older

THEN enter on line 3 . . .
410
360
310
260
210

-29-

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

annuity starting date was after 1997 and
the payments are for your life and that of
your beneficiary, use your combined
ages on the annuity starting date.
If you are the beneficiary of an employee who died, see Pub. 575. If there
is more than one beneficiary, see Pub.
575 or Pub. 721 to figure each beneficiary's taxable amount.
Cost
Your cost is generally your net investment in the plan as of the annuity starting date. It doesn't include pre-tax contributions. Your net investment may be
shown in box 9b of Form 1099-R.
Rollovers
Generally, a rollover is a tax-free distribution of cash or other assets from one
retirement plan that is contributed to another plan within 60 days of receiving
the distribution. However, a rollover to a
Roth IRA or a designated Roth account
is generally not a tax-free distribution.
Use lines 5a and 5b to report a rollover,
including a direct rollover, from one
qualified employer's plan to another or
to an IRA or SEP.
Enter on line 5a the distribution from
Form 1099-R, box 1. From this amount,
subtract any contributions (usually
shown in box 5) that were taxable to you
when made. From that result, subtract
the amount of the rollover. Enter the remaining amount on line 5b. If the remaining amount is zero and you have no
other distribution to report on line 5b,
enter -0- on line 5b. Also enter "Rollover" next to line 5b.
See Pub. 575 for more details on rollovers, including special rules that apply
to rollovers from designated Roth accounts, partial rollovers of property, and
distributions under qualified domestic
relations orders.
Lump-Sum Distributions
If you received a lump-sum distribution
from a profit-sharing or retirement plan,
your Form 1099-R should have the "Total distribution" box in box 2b checked.
You may owe an additional tax if you
received an early distribution from a
qualified retirement plan and the total
amount wasn't rolled over. For details,

see the instructions for Schedule 2,
line 8.
Enter the total distribution on line 5a
and the taxable part on line 5b. For details, see Pub. 575.
If you or the plan participant

TIP was born before January 2,
1936, you could pay less tax on
the distribution. See Form 4972.

Lines 6a, 6b, and 6c
Lines 6a and 6b
Social Security Benefits
You should receive a Form SSA-1099
showing in box 3 the total social security benefits paid to you. Box 4 will show
the amount of any benefits you repaid in
2022. If you received railroad retirement
benefits treated as social security, you
should receive a Form RRB-1099.
Use the Social Security Benefits
Worksheet in these instructions to see if
any of your benefits are taxable.
Exception. Do not use the Social Security Benefits Worksheet in these instructions if any of the following applies.
• You made contributions to a traditional IRA for 2022 and you or your
spouse were covered by a retirement
plan at work or through self-employment. Instead, use the worksheets in
Pub. 590-A to see if any of your social
security benefits are taxable and to figure your IRA deduction.
• You repaid any benefits in 2022
and your total repayments (box 4) were
more than your total benefits for 2022
(box 3). None of your benefits are taxable for 2022. Also, if your total repayments in 2022 exceed your total benefits
received in 2022 by more than $3,000,
you may be able to take an itemized deduction or a credit for part of the excess
repayments if they were for benefits you
included in income in an earlier year.
For more details, see Pub. 915.
• You file Form 2555, 4563, or
8815, or you exclude employer-provided
adoption benefits or income from sources within Puerto Rico. Instead, use the
worksheet in Pub. 915.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

-30-

Social security information.

TIP Social security beneficiaries
can now get a variety of information from the SSA website with a my
Social Security account, including getting a replacement Form SSA‐1099 if
needed. For more information and to set
up an account, go to SSA.gov/
myaccount.
Disability payments. Don’t include in
your income any disability payments
(including Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) payments) you receive
for injuries incurred as a direct result of
a terrorist attack directed against the
United States (or its allies), whether outside or within the United States. In the
case of the September 11 attacks, injuries eligible for coverage by the September 11 Victim Compensation Fund are
treated as incurred as a direct result of
the attack. If these payments are incorrectly reported as taxable on Form
SSA-1099, don't include the nontaxable
portion of income on your tax return.
You may receive a notice from the IRS
regarding the omitted payments. Follow
the instructions in the notice to explain
that the excluded payments aren't taxable. For more information about these
payments, see Pub. 3920.
Example. Taxpayer X, a firefighter,
was disabled as a direct result of the
September 11 terrorist attack on the
World Trade Center. X began receiving
Social Security Disability Insurance
(SSDI) benefits at age 54. X's full retirement age for social security retirement
benefits is age 66. X's birthday is April
25. In the year X turned 66, X received
$1,500 per month in benefits from the
Social Security Administration (for a total of $18,000). Because X became eligible for a full retirement benefit in May,
the month after X turned 66, X can exclude only four months (January through
April) of their annual benefit from their
income ($6,000). X must report the remaining $12,000 on line 6a. X must also
complete the Social Security Benefits
Worksheet to find out if any part of the
$12,000 is taxable.
Form RRB-1099. If you need a

TIP replacement Form RRB-1099,
call the Railroad Retirement
Board at 877-772-5772 or go to
www.rrb.gov.

Accrued leave payment. If you retire
on disability, any lump-sum payment
you receive for accured annual leave is a
salary payment. The payment is not a
disability payment. Include it in your income in the tax year you receive it.

Line 6c
Check the box on line 6c if you elect to
use the lump-sum election method for
your benefits. If any of your benefits are
taxable for 2022 and they include a
lump-sum benefit payment that was for
an earlier year, you may be able to reduce the taxable amount with the
lump-sum election. See Lump-Sum Election in Pub. 915 for details.

Line 7
Capital Gain or (Loss)
If you sold a capital asset, such as a
stock or bond, you must complete and
attach Form 8949 and Schedule D.
Exception 1. You don’t have to file
Form 8949 or Schedule D if you aren’t
deferring any capital gain by investing
in a qualified opportunity fund and both
of the following apply.
1. You have no capital losses, and
your only capital gains are capital gain
distributions from Form(s) 1099-DIV,
box 2a (or substitute statements); and
2. None of the Form(s) 1099-DIV
(or substitute statements) have an
amount in box 2b (unrecaptured section
1250 gain), box 2c (section 1202 gain),
or box 2d (collectibles (28%) gain).
Exception 2. You must file Schedule D
but generally don’t have to file Form
8949 if Exception 1 doesn't apply, you
aren’t deferring any capital gain by investing in a qualified opportunity fund
or terminating deferral from an investment in a qualified opportunity fund,
and your only capital gains and losses
are:
• Capital gain distributions;
• A capital loss carryover from
2021;
• A gain from Form 2439 or 6252 or
Part I of Form 4797;
• A gain or loss from Form 4684,
6781, or 8824;
• A gain or loss from a partnership,
S corporation, estate, or trust; or

• Gains and losses from transactions
for which you received a Form 1099-B
(or substitute statement) that shows basis was reported to the IRS, the QOF
box in box 3 isn’t checked, and you
don’t need to make any adjustments in
column (g) of Form 8949 or enter any
codes in column (f) of Form 8949.
If Exception 1 applies, enter your total capital gain distributions (from
box 2a of Form(s) 1099-DIV) on line 7
and check the box on that line. If you received capital gain distributions as a
nominee (that is, they were paid to you
but actually belong to someone else), report on line 7 only the amount that belongs to you. Include a statement showing the full amount you received and the
amount you received as a nominee. See
the Schedule B instructions for filing requirements for Forms 1099-DIV and
1096.
If you don’t have to file Sched-

TIP ule D, use the Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax
Worksheet in the line 16 instructions to
figure your tax.

If you made a section 962 election and are taking a deduction
CAUTION under section 250 with respect
to any income inclusions under section
951 or 951A, don't report the deduction
on line 12. Instead, report the tax with
respect to a section 962 election on
line 16 and include in the statement required by line 16 how you figured the
section 250 deduction.

!

Standard Deduction
Most Form 1040 filers can find their
standard deduction by looking at the
amounts listed to the left of line 12.
Most Form 1040-SR filers can find their
standard deduction by using the chart on
the last page of Form 1040-SR.
Exception
1—Dependent. If
you
checked the “Someone can claim you as
a dependent” box, or if you’re filing
jointly and you checked the “Someone
can claim your spouse as a dependent”
box, use the Standard Deduction Worksheet for Dependents to figure your
standard deduction.
Someone claims you or your

TIP spouse as a dependent if they
list your or your spouse's name
and SSN in the Dependents section of
their return.

Total Income and
Adjusted Gross
Income
Line 10
Enter any adjustments to income from
Schedule 1, line 26, on line 10.

Tax and Credits
Line 12
Itemized Deductions or
Standard Deduction
In most cases, your federal income tax
will be less if you take the larger of your
itemized deductions or standard deduction.
Itemized Deductions
To figure your itemized deductions, fill
in Schedule A.

-31-

Exception 2—Born before January 2,
1958, or blind. If you checked any of
the following boxes, figure your standard deduction using the Standard Deduction Chart for People Who Were Born
Before January 2, 1958, or Were Blind
if you are filing Form 1040 or by using
the chart on the last page of Form
1040-SR.
• You were born before January 2,
1958.
• You are blind.
• Spouse was born before January 2,
1958.
• Spouse is blind.
Exception 3—Separate return or dual-status alien. If you checked the box
labeled “Spouse itemizes on separate return or you were dual-status alien” on
the Spouse standard deduction line, your
standard deduction is zero, even if you
were born before January 2, 1958, or
were blind.
Exception 4—Increased standard deduction for net qualified disaster loss.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Social Security Benefits Worksheet—Lines 6a and 6b
Before you begin:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

8.

9.

10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

Keep for Your Records

Figure any write-in adjustments to be entered on Schedule 1, line 24z (see the instructions for Schedule
1, line 24z).
If you are married filing separately and you lived apart from your spouse for all of 2022, enter “D” to
the right of the word “benefits” on line 6a. If you don’t, you may get a math error notice from the IRS.
Be sure you have read the Exception in the line 6a and 6b instructions to see if you can use this
worksheet instead of a publication to find out if any of your benefits are taxable.

Enter the total amount from box 5 of all your Forms SSA-1099 and
RRB-1099. Also enter this amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 6a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Multiply line 1 by 50% (0.50) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Combine the amounts from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, lines 1z, 2b, 3b, 4b, 5b, 7, and 8 . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the amount, if any, from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 2a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Combine lines 2, 3, and 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the total of the amounts from Schedule 1, lines 11 through 20, and 23 and 25 . . . . . . . . . . .
Is the amount on line 6 less than the amount on line 5?
No.
None of your social security benefits are taxable. Enter -0- on Form 1040 or
STOP
1040-SR, line 6b.

2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Yes. Subtract line 6 from line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

If you are:
• Married filing jointly, enter $32,000
• Single, head of household, qualifying surviving spouse, or
married filing separately and you lived apart from your spouse for,
all of 2022, enter $25,000
...............
Married
filing
separately
and
you
lived
with
your
spouse
at
any
time
•
in 2022, skip lines 8 through 15; multiply line 7 by 85% (0.85) and
enter the result on line 16. Then, go to line 17
Is the amount on line 8 less than the amount on line 7?
No.
None of your social security benefits are taxable. Enter -0- on Form 1040 or
STOP
1040-SR, line 6b. If you are married filing separately and you lived apart from
your spouse for all of 2022, be sure you entered “D” to the right of the word
“benefits” on line 6a.
Yes. Subtract line 8 from line 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

9.

Enter $12,000 if married filing jointly; $9,000 if single, head of household, qualifying surviving
spouse, or married filing separately and you lived apart from your spouse for all of 2022 . . . . . . 10.
Subtract line 10 from line 9. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.
Enter the smaller of line 9 or line 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.
Enter one-half of line 12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.
Enter the smaller of line 2 or line 13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.
Multiply line 11 by 85% (0.85). If line 11 is zero, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.
Add lines 14 and 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.
Multiply line 1 by 85% (0.85) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17.
Taxable social security benefits. Enter the smaller of line 16 or line 17. Also enter this amount
on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 6b . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18.
TIP

If any of your benefits are taxable for 2022 and they include a lump-sum benefit payment that was for an earlier
year, you may be able to reduce the taxable amount. See Lump-Sum Election in Pub. 915 for details.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

-32-

If you had a net qualified disaster loss
and you elect to increase your standard
deduction by the amount of your net
qualified disaster loss, use Schedule A
to figure your standard deduction. Qualified disaster loss refers to losses arising
from certain disasters occurring in 2016
and subsequent years. See the Instructions for Form 4684 and Schedule A,
line 16, for more information.

Line 13
Qualified Business Income
Deduction (Section 199A
Deduction)
To figure your Qualified Business Income Deduction, use Form 8995 or
Form 8995-A as applicable.
Use Form 8995 if:
• You have qualified business income, qualified REIT dividends, or
qualified PTP income (loss);
• Your 2022 taxable income before
the qualified business income deduction
is less than or equal to $170,050
($340,100 if married filing jointly); and
• You aren’t a patron in a specified
agricultural or horticultural cooperative.
If you don’t meet these requirements,
use Form 8995-A, Qualified Business
Income Deduction. Attach whichever
form you use (Form 8995 or 8995-A) to
your return. See the Instructions for
Forms 8995 and 8995-A for more information for figuring and reporting your
qualified business income deduction.

Line 16
Tax
Include in the total on the entry space on
line 16 all of the following taxes that apply.
• Tax on your taxable income. Figure the tax using one of the methods described later.
• Tax from Form(s) 8814 (relating to
the election to report child's interest or
dividends). Check the appropriate box.
• Tax from Form 4972 (relating to
lump-sum distributions). Check the appropriate box.
• Tax with respect to a section 962
election (election made by a domestic
shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation to be taxed at corporate rates)

reduced by the amount of any foreign
tax credits claimed on Form 1118. See
section 962 for details. Check box 3 and
enter the amount and “962” in the space
next to that box. Attach a statement
showing how you figured the tax.
• Recapture of an education credit.
You may owe this tax if you claimed an
education credit in an earlier year, and
either tax-free educational assistance or
a refund of qualified expenses was received in 2022 for the student. See Form
8863 for more details. Check box 3 and
enter the amount and “ECR” in the
space next to that box.
• Any tax from Form 8621, line 16e,
relating to a section 1291 fund. Check
box 3 and enter the amount of the tax
and “1291TAX” in the space next to that
box.
• Tax from Form 8978, line 14 (relating to partner's audit liability under
section 6226). Check box 3 and enter the
amount of the liability and “Form 8978”
in the space next to that box. If the
amount on Form 8978, line 14, is negative, see the instructions for Schedule 3
(Form 1040), line 6l.
• Net tax liability deferred under
section 965(i). If you had a net 965 inclusion and made an election to defer
your net 965 tax liability under section
965(i), check box 3 and enter (as a negative number) the amount of the deferred
net 965 tax liability and “965” on the
line next to that box.
• Triggering event under section
965(i). If you had a triggering event under section 965(i) during the year and
did not enter into a transfer agreement,
check box 3 and enter the amount of the
triggered deferred net 965 tax liability
and enter “965INC” on the line next to
that box.
Do you want the IRS to figure the
tax on your taxable income for you?
Yes. See chapter 13 of Pub. 17 for
details, including who is eligible and
what to do. If you have paid too much,
we will send you a refund. If you didn't
pay enough, we will send you a bill.
No. Use one of the following methods to figure your tax.
Tax Table or Tax Computation
Worksheet. If your taxable income is
less than $100,000, you must use the
Tax Table, later in these instructions, to
figure your tax. Be sure you use the cor-33-

rect column. If your taxable income is
$100,000 or more, use the Tax Computation Worksheet right after the Tax Table.
However, don’t use the Tax Table or
Tax Computation Worksheet to figure
your tax if any of the following applies.
Form 8615. Form 8615 must generally
be used to figure the tax on your unearned income over $2,300 if you are
under age 18, and in certain situations if
you are older.
You must file Form 8615 if you meet
all of the following conditions.
1. You had more than $2,300 of unearned income (such as taxable interest,
ordinary dividends, or capital gains (including capital gain distributions)).
2. You are required to file a tax return.
3. You were either:
a. Under age 18 at the end of 2022,
b. Age 18 at the end of 2022 and
didn't have earned income that was more
than half of your support, or
c. A full-time student at least age 19
but under age 24 at the end of 2022 and
didn't have earned income that was more
than half of your support.
4. At least one of your parents was
alive at the end of 2022.
5. You don’t file a joint return in
2022.
A child born on January 1, 2005, is
considered to be age 18 at the end of
2022; a child born on January 1, 2004, is
considered to be age 19 at the end of
2022; and a child born on January 1,
1999, is considered to be age 24 at the
end of 2022.
Schedule D Tax Worksheet. Use the
Schedule D Tax Worksheet in the Instructions for Schedule D to figure the
amount to enter on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 16, if:
• You have to file Schedule D, and
line 18 or 19 of Schedule D is more than
zero; or
• You have to file Form 4952 and
you have an amount on line 4g, even if
you don’t need to file Schedule D.
But if you are filing Form 2555, you
must use the Foreign Earned Income
Tax Worksheet instead.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Standard Deduction Worksheet for Dependents—Line 12

Keep for Your Records

Use this worksheet only if someone can claim you, or your spouse if filing jointly, as a dependent.
1.

Check if:

You were born before January 2, 1958.
You are blind.

Total number of boxes
1.
checked . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Spouse was born before January 2, 1958.
Spouse is blind.
Is your earned income* more than $750?

2.

Yes. Add $400 to your earned income. Enter the total.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
No. Enter $1,150.
3.
Enter the amount shown below for your filing status.
• Single or married filing separately—$12,950
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
• Married filing jointly—$25,900
• Head of household—$19,400
4.
Standard deduction.
a. Enter the smaller of line 2 or line 3. If born after January 1, 1958, and not blind, stop here and enter this
amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 12. Otherwise, go to line 4b . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4a.
b. If born before January 2, 1958, or blind, multiply the number on line 1 by $1,400 ($1,750 if single or head of
household) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4b.
c. Add lines 4a and 4b. Enter the total here and on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4c.
* Earned income includes wages, salaries, tips, professional fees, and other compensation received for personal services you performed. It also includes any
taxable scholarship or fellowship grant. Generally, your earned income is the total of the amount(s) you reported on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1z, and
Schedule 1, lines 3, 6, 8r, 8t, and 8u minus the amount, if any, on Schedule 1, line 15.

Standard Deduction Chart for People Who Were Born Before January 2, 1958, or Were Blind
Don’t use this chart if someone can claim you, or your spouse if filing jointly, as a dependent. Instead, use the worksheet above.
You were born before January 2, 1958.

You are blind.

Spouse was born before January 2, 1958.

Spouse is blind.

Enter the total number of boxes checked . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

IF your filing
status is . . .

AND the number in
the box above is . . .

▶
THEN your standard
deduction is . . .

Single

1
2

$14,700
16,450

Married filing jointly

1
2
3
4

$27,300
28,700
30,100
31,500

Qualifying surviving spouse

1
2

$27,300
28,700

Married filing separately*

1
2
3
4

$14,350
15,750
17,150
18,550

Head of household

1
2

$21,150
22,900

* You can check the boxes for spouse if your filing status is married filing separately and your spouse had no income, isn't filing a return, and can't be claimed
as a dependent on another person's return.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

-34-

Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain
Tax Worksheet. Use the Qualified
Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet, later, to figure your tax if you
don’t have to use the Schedule D Tax
Worksheet and if any of the following
applies.
• You reported qualified dividends
on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 3a.
• You don’t have to file Schedule D
and you reported capital gain distributions on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 7.

• You are filing Schedule D, and
Schedule D, lines 15 and 16, are both
more than zero.
But if you are filing Form 2555, you
must use the Foreign Earned Income
Tax Worksheet instead.
Schedule J. If you had income from
farming or fishing (including certain
amounts received in connection with the
Exxon Valdez litigation), your tax may

Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet—Line 16

!

CAUTION

be less if you choose to figure it using
income averaging on Schedule J.
Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet. If you claimed the foreign earned
income exclusion, housing exclusion, or
housing deduction on Form 2555, you
must figure your tax using the Foreign
Earned Income Tax Worksheet.

Keep for Your Records

If Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 15, is zero, don’t complete this worksheet.

1. Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
2a. Enter the amount from your (and your spouse's, if filing jointly) Form 2555, lines 45 and 50 . . . . . . 2a.
b. Enter the total amount of any itemized deductions or exclusions you couldn't claim because they are
related to excluded income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . b.
c. Subtract line 2b from line 2a. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . c.
3. Add lines 1 and 2c . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Figure the tax on the amount on line 3. Use the Tax Table, Tax Computation Worksheet,
Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet*, Schedule D Tax Worksheet*, or Form
8615, whichever applies. See the instructions for Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16, to see which tax
computation method applies. (Don’t use a second Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet to figure
the tax on this line.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
5. Figure the tax on the amount on line 2c. If the amount on line 2c is less than $100,000, use the
Tax Table to figure this tax. If the amount on line 2c is $100,000 or more, use the Tax Computation
Worksheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.
6. Subtract line 5 from line 4. Enter the result. If zero or less, enter -0-. Also include this amount on
the entry space on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
* Enter the amount from line 3 above on line 1 of the Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet or Schedule D Tax Worksheet if
you use either of those worksheets to figure the tax on line 4 above. Complete the rest of that worksheet through line 4 (line 10 if you use the
Schedule D Tax Worksheet). Next, you must determine if you have a capital gain excess. To find out if you have a capital gain excess, subtract
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 15, from line 4 of your Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet (line 10 of your Schedule D Tax
Worksheet). If the result is more than zero, that amount is your capital gain excess.
If you don’t have a capital gain excess, complete the rest of either of those worksheets according to the worksheet's instructions. Then,
complete lines 5 and 6 above.
If you have a capital gain excess, complete a second Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet or Schedule D Tax Worksheet
(whichever applies) as instructed above but in its entirety and with the following additional modifications. Then, complete lines 5 and 6 above.
These modifications are to be made only for purposes of filling out the Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet above.
1. Reduce (but not below zero) the amount you would otherwise enter on line 3 of your Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet
or line 9 of your Schedule D Tax Worksheet by your capital gain excess.
2. Reduce (but not below zero) the amount you would otherwise enter on line 2 of your Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet
or line 6 of your Schedule D Tax Worksheet by any of your capital gain excess not used in (1) above.
3. Reduce (but not below zero) the amount on your Schedule D (Form 1040), line 18, by your capital gain excess.
4. Include your capital gain excess as a loss on line 16 of your Unrecaptured Section 1250 Gain Worksheet in the Instructions for
Schedule D (Form 1040).

-35-

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet—Line 16

Keep for Your Records

Before you begin:

1.
2.
3.

4.
5.
6.

7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.

14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.

See the earlier instructions for line 16 to see if you can use this worksheet to figure your tax.
Before completing this worksheet, complete Form 1040 or 1040-SR through line 15.
If you don’t have to file Schedule D and you received capital gain distributions, be sure you checked the box
on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 7.
Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 15. However, if you are filing
Form 2555 (relating to foreign earned income), enter the amount from line 3 of the
Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 3a* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.
Are you filing Schedule D?*
Yes. Enter the smaller of line 15 or 16 of
Schedule D. If either line 15 or 16 is blank
or a loss, enter -0-.
3.
No. Enter the amount from Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 7.
Add lines 2 and 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4.
Subtract line 4 from line 1. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.
Enter:
$41,675 if single or married filing separately,
$83,350 if married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse,
. . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
$55,800 if head of household.
Enter the smaller of line 1 or line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.
Enter the smaller of line 5 or line 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.
Subtract line 8 from line 7. This amount is taxed at 0% . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.
Enter the smaller of line 1 or line 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.
Enter the amount from line 9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.
Subtract line 11 from line 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.
Enter:
$459,750 if single,
$258,600 if married filing separately,
. . . . . . . . . . . . 13.
$517,200 if married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse,
$488,500 if head of household.
Enter the smaller of line 1 or line 13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.
Add lines 5 and 9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.
Subtract line 15 from line 14. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.
Enter the smaller of line 12 or line 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17.
Multiply line 17 by 15% (0.15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
18.
Add lines 9 and 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19.
Subtract line 19 from line 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20.
Multiply line 20 by 20% (0.20) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
21.
Figure the tax on the amount on line 5. If the amount on line 5 is less than $100,000, use the Tax Table
to figure the tax. If the amount on line 5 is $100,000 or more, use the Tax Computation
Worksheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
22.
Add lines 18, 21, and 22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
23.
Figure the tax on the amount on line 1. If the amount on line 1 is less than $100,000, use the Tax Table
to figure the tax. If the amount on line 1 is $100,000 or more, use the Tax Computation
Worksheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24.
Tax on all taxable income. Enter the smaller of line 23 or 24. Also include this amount on the entry
space on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16. If you are filing Form 2555, don’t enter this amount on the
entry space on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16. Instead, enter it on line 4 of the Foreign Earned Income
Tax Worksheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
25.

* If you are filing Form 2555, see the footnote in the Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet before completing this line.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

-36-

Line 19
Child Tax Credit and Credit
for Other Dependents
Use Schedule 8812 (Form 1040) to figure your child tax credit and credit for
other dependents.
Form 8862, who must file. You must
file Form 8862 to claim the child tax
credit or credit for other dependents if
your child tax credit (refundable or nonrefundable depending on the tax year),
additional child tax credit, or credit for
other dependents for a year after 2015
was denied or reduced for any reason
other than a math or clerical error. Attach a completed Form 8862 to your
2022 return. Don’t file Form 8862 if you
filed Form 8862 for 2021, and the child
tax credit (refundable or nonrefundable),
additional child tax credit, or credit for
other dependents was allowed for that
year. See Form 8862 and its instructions
for details.
If you take the child tax credit
or credit for other dependents
CAUTION even though you aren't eligible
and it is determined that your error is
due to reckless or intentional disregard
of the rules for these credits, you won't
be allowed to take either credit or the
additional child tax credit for 2 years
even if you're otherwise eligible to do
so. If you take the child tax credit or
credit for other dependents even though
you aren’t eligible and it is later determined that you fraudulently took either
credit, you won't be allowed to take either credit or the additional child tax
credit for 10 years. You may also have
to pay penalties.

!

If your qualifying child didn’t
have an SSN valid for employCAUTION ment issued before the due date
of your 2022 return (including extensions), you can’t claim the child tax
credit for that child on your original or
amended return. However, you may be
able to claim the credit for other dependents for that child.

!

Form 8805, or Form 8288-A. You
should attach the form to your return to
claim a credit for the withholding.

Payments
Line 25
Federal Income Tax
Withheld

Line 26

Line 25a—Form(s) W-2

Enter any estimated federal income tax
payments you made for 2022. Include
any overpayment that you applied to
your 2022 estimated tax from your 2021
return or an amended return (Form
1040-X).

2022 Estimated Tax
Payments

Add the amounts shown as federal income tax withheld on your Form(s)
W-2. Enter the total on line 25a. The
amount withheld should be shown in
box 2 of Form W-2. Attach your
Form(s) W-2 to your return.

Line 25b—Form(s) 1099
Include on line 25b any federal income
tax withheld on your Form(s) 1099-R.
The amount withheld should be shown
in box 4. Attach your Form(s) 1099-R to
the front of your return if federal income
tax was withheld.
If you received a 2022 Form 1099
showing federal income tax withheld on
dividends, taxable or tax-exempt interest
income, unemployment compensation,
social security benefits, railroad retirement benefits, or other income you received, include the amount withheld in
the total on line 25b. This should be
shown in box 4 of Form 1099, box 6 of
Form SSA-1099, or box 10 of Form
RRB-1099.

Line 25c—Other Forms
Include on line 25c any federal income
tax withheld on your Form(s) W-2G.
The amount withheld should be shown
in box 4. Attach Form(s) W-2G to the
front of your return if federal income tax
was withheld.
If you had Additional Medicare Tax
withheld, include the amount shown on
Form 8959, line 24, in the total on
line 25c. Attach Form 8959.
Include on line 25c any federal income tax withheld that is shown on a
Schedule K-1.
Also include on line 25c any tax
withheld that is shown on Form 1042-S,

-37-

If you and your spouse paid joint estimated tax but are now filing separate income tax returns, you can divide the
amount paid in any way you choose as
long as you both agree. If you can't
agree, you must divide the payments in
proportion to each spouse's individual
tax as shown on your separate returns
for 2022. For more information, see
Pub. 505. Be sure to show both SSNs in
the space provided on the separate returns. If you or your spouse paid separate estimated tax but you are now filing
a joint return, add the amounts you each
paid. Follow these instructions even if
your spouse died in 2022 or in 2023 before filing a 2022 return.
Divorced taxpayers. If you got divorced in 2022 and you made joint estimated tax payments with your former
spouse, enter your former spouse's SSN
in the space provided on the front of
Form 1040 or 1040-SR. If you were divorced and remarried in 2022, enter
your present spouse's SSN in the space
provided on the front of Form 1040 or
1040-SR. Also, on the dotted line next
to line 26, enter your former spouse's
SSN, followed by “DIV.”
Name change. If you changed your
name and you made estimated tax payments using your former name, attach a
statement to the front of Form 1040 or
1040-SR that explains all the payments
you and your spouse made in 2022 and
the name(s) and SSN(s) under which
you made them.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Line 27—
Earned Income Credit (EIC)

work and is valid for EIC purposes (explained later under
Definitions and Special Rules)?
Yes. Continue
No. STOP
䊲

What Is the EIC?
The EIC is a credit for certain people who work. The credit may
give you a refund even if you don’t owe any tax or didn’t have
any tax withheld.

To Take the EIC:

• Follow the steps below.
• Complete the worksheet that applies to you or let the IRS

You can't take the credit.
Enter “No” on the dotted
line next to line 27.

3. Are you filing Form 2555 (relating to foreign earned
income)?
No. Continue
Yes. STOP

䊲

You can't take the
credit.

figure the credit for you.
• If you have a qualifying child, complete and attach Schedule EIC.
• If you have at least one child who meets the conditions to
be your qualifying child for purposes of claiming the EIC, complete and attach Schedule EIC, even if that child doesn't have a
valid SSN. See Schedule EIC for more information, including
how to complete Schedule EIC if your qualifying child doesn't
have a valid SSN.

4. Were you or your spouse a nonresident alien for any part of
2022?
Yes. See Nonresident
No. Go to Step 2.
aliens, later, under
Definitions and Special
Rules.

For help in determining if you are eligible for the EIC, go to
IRS.gov/EITC and click on “EITC Qualification Assistant.” This
service is available in English and Spanish.

1. Add the amounts from Form 1040 or 1040-SR:

Step 2

Line 2a

If you take the EIC even though you aren't eligible and
it is determined that your error is due to reckless or inCAUTION tentional disregard of the EIC rules, you won't be allowed to take the credit for 2 years even if you are otherwise eligible to do so. If you fraudulently take the EIC, you won't be
allowed to take the credit for 10 years. See Form 8862, who
must file, later. You may also have to pay penalties.

!

Refunds for returns claiming the earned income credit
TIP can't be issued before mid-February 2023. This delay
applies to the entire refund, not just the portion associated with the earned income credit.

Step 1

All Filers

1. If, in 2022:
• 3 or more children who have valid SSNs lived with you,
is the amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11, less
than $53,057 ($59,187 if married filing jointly)?
• 2 children who have valid SSNs lived with you, is the
amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11, less than
$49,399 ($55,529 if married filing jointly)?
• 1 child who has a valid SSN lived with you, is the
amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11, less than
$43,492 ($49,622 if married filing jointly)?
• No children who have valid SSNs lived with you, is the
amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11, less than
$16,480 ($22,610 if married filing jointly)?
Yes. Continue
No. STOP
䊲

You can't take the credit.

2. Do you, and your spouse if filing a joint return, have a
social security number issued on or before the due date of
your 2022 return (including extensions) that allows you to

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Investment Income

Line 2b

+

Line 3b

+

Line 7*

+

Investment Income =
*If line 7 is a loss, enter -0-.

2. Is your investment income more than $10,300?
Yes. Continue
No. Skip question 3; go
䊲
to question 4.
3. Are you filing Form 4797 (relating to sales of business
property)?
Yes. See Form 4797
No. STOP
filers, later, under
You can't take the credit.
Definitions and Special
Rules.
4. Do any of the following apply for 2022?
• You are filing Schedule E.
• You are reporting income from the rental of personal
property not used in a trade or business.
• You are filing Form 8814 (relating to election to report
child's interest and dividends on your return).
• You have income or loss from a passive activity.
Yes. Use Worksheet 1
No. Go to Step 3.
in Pub. 596 to see if you
can take the credit.

-38-

Step 3

Qualifying Child

A qualifying child for the EIC is a child who is your...
Son, daughter, stepchild, foster child, brother, sister, stepbrother, stepsister,
half brother, half sister, or a descendant of any of them (for example, your
grandchild, niece, or nephew)
AND

3. Are you a married taxpayer whose filing status is married
filing separately or head of household?
Yes. Continue
No. Skip questions 4
䊲
and 5; go to question 6.
4. Did you and your spouse have the same principal residence
for the last 6 months of 2022?
Yes. Continue
No. Skip question 5; go
䊲
to question 6.

was ...
Under age 19 at the end of 2022 and younger than you
(or your spouse if filing jointly)
or
Under age 24 at the end of 2022, a student (defined later), and younger than
you (or your spouse if filing jointly)

5. Are you legally separated according to your state law under
a written separation agreement or a decree of separate
maintenance and you lived apart from your spouse at the
end of 2022?
Yes. Continue
No. STOP
䊲

or
Any age and permanently and totally disabled (defined later)
AND

Who isn't filing a joint return for 2022
or is filing a joint return for 2022 only to claim a refund of withheld income
tax or estimated tax paid (see Pub. 596 for examples)
AND

Who lived with you in the United States for more than half of 2022.

6. Could you be a qualifying child of another person for 2022?
(Check “No” if the other person isn't required to file, and
isn't filing, a 2022 tax return or is filing a 2022 return only
to claim a refund of withheld income tax or estimated tax
paid (see Pub. 596 for examples).)
No. Skip Step 4; go to
Yes. STOP
Step 5.
You can't take the
credit. Enter “No” on
the dotted line next to
line 27.

Step 4

!

You can't take the credit for a child who didn't live with you for more
than half the year, even if you paid most of the child's living expenses. The
IRS may ask you for documents to show you lived with each qualifying child.
Documents you might want to keep for this purpose include school and child
care records and other records that show your child's address.
CAUTION

!

If the child meets the conditions to be a qualifying child of any other
person (other than your spouse, if filing a joint return) for 2022, see
Qualifying child of more than one person, later. If the child was married, see
Married child, later.
CAUTION

Filers Without a Qualifying
Child

1. Are you a married taxpayer whose filing status is married
filing separately or head of household?
No. Continue
Yes. STOP
You can’t take the
credit.

TIP

If the child didn't live with you for more than half of 2022 because of
a temporary absence, birth, death, or kidnapping, see Exception to time
lived with you, later.

2. Are you filing a joint return for 2022?
Yes. Skip questions 3
No. Continue
䊲
through 6 and Step 4;
go to Step 5.

䊲

2. Were you, or your spouse if filing a joint return, at least age
25 but under age 65 at the end of 2022? (Check “Yes” if
you, or your spouse if filing a joint return, were born after
December 31, 1957, and before January 2, 1998.) If your
spouse died in 2022 or if you are preparing a return for
someone who died in 2022, see Pub. 596 before you answer.
Yes. Continue
No. STOP
䊲

1. Do you have at least one child who meets the conditions to
be your qualifying child for the purpose of claiming the
EIC?
Yes. Continue
No. Skip questions 2
䊲
through 6; go to Step 4.

You can’t take the credit.

You can’t take the credit.

3. Was your main home, and your spouse's if filing a joint
return, in the United States for more than half of 2022?
Members of the military stationed outside the United States,
see Members of the military, later, before you answer.
Yes. Continue
No. STOP
䊲

-39-

You can't take the credit.
Enter “No” on the dotted
line next to line 27.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

4. Are you filing a joint return for 2022?
Yes. Skip questions 5
No. Continue
䊲
and 6; go to Step 5.

4. Enter all of your nontaxable combat pay if you elect
to include it in earned income. Also enter the amount
of your nontaxable combat pay on line 1i of Form
1040 or 1040-SR. See Combat pay,
4.
nontaxable, later . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5. Could you be a qualifying child of another person for 2022?
(Check “No” if the other person isn't required to file, and
isn't filing, a 2022 tax return or is filing a 2022 return only
to claim a refund of withheld income tax or estimated tax
paid (see Pub. 596 for examples).)
No. Continue
Yes. STOP

Electing to include nontaxable combat pay may increase or
decrease your EIC. Figure the credit with and without your nontaxable
combat pay before making the election.
5. Add lines 3 and 4.
This is your earned income . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.

䊲

You can't take the
credit. Enter “No”
on the dotted line next
to line 27.

6. Can you be claimed as a dependent on someone else's 2022
tax return? (If the person who could claim you on their 2022
tax return is not required to file, and isn't filing a 2022 tax
return or is filing a 2022 return only to claim a refund of
withheld income tax or estimated tax paid, check “No.”)
No. Go to Step 5.
Yes. STOP
You can't take the
credit.

Step 5

Earned Income

1. Are you filing Schedule SE because you were a member of
the clergy or you had church employee income of $108.28
or more?
Yes. See Clergy or
No. Complete the
following worksheet.
Church employees,
whichever applies.
1. Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 1z . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Enter the Medicaid waiver payment amounts
excluded from income on Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
line 8s, unless you choose to include these amounts
in earned income, in which case enter -0-. See the
instructions for Schedule 1, line 8s. . . . . . . . .

3. If you have:
• 3 or more qualifying children who have valid SSNs, is
your earned income less than $53,057 ($59,187 if
married filing jointly)?
• 2 qualifying children who have valid SSNs, is your
earned income less than $49,399 ($55,529 if married
filing jointly)?
• 1 qualifying child who has a valid SSN, is your earned
income less than $43,492 ($49,622 if married filing
jointly)?
• No qualifying children who have valid SSNs, is your
earned income less than $16,480 ($22,610 if married
filing jointly)?
Yes. Go to Step 6.
No. STOP
You can't take the credit.

Step 6
2.

If you and your spouse both received Medicaid waiver
payments during the year, you and your spouse can make different
choices about including the full amount of your payments in earned
income. Enter only the amount of Medicaid waiver payments that you
or your spouse, if filing a joint return, do not want to include in earned
income. To include all nontaxable Medicaid waiver payment amounts in
earned income, enter -0-.
. . . . . . . . . . . . .

2. Were you self-employed at any time in 2022, or are you
filing Schedule SE because you were a member of the
clergy or you had church employee income, or are you
filing Schedule C as a statutory employee?
Yes. Skip question 3
No. Continue
䊲
and Step 6; go to
Worksheet B.

1.

TIP

3. Subtract line 2 from line 1

!

CAUTION

3.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

How To Figure the Credit

1. Do you want the IRS to figure the credit for you?
Yes. See Credit figured
No. Go to Worksheet A.
by the IRS, later.

Definitions and Special Rules
Adopted child. An adopted child is always treated as your own
child. An adopted child includes a child lawfully placed with
you for legal adoption.
Church employees. Determine how much of the amount on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1a, was also reported on Schedule SE, Part I, line 5a. Subtract that amount from the amount on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1a, and enter the result on line 1 of
the worksheet in Step 5 (instead of entering the actual amount
from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1a). Be sure to answer “Yes”
to question 2 in Step 5.
Clergy. The following instructions apply to ministers, members of religious orders who have not taken a vow of poverty,
and Christian Science practitioners. If you are filing Schedule SE and the amount on line 2 of that schedule includes an

-40-

amount that was also reported on Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 1z, do the following.
1. Enter “Clergy” on the dotted line next to line 27.
2. Determine how much of the amount on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 1z, was also reported on Schedule SE, Part I,
line 2.
3. Subtract that amount from the amount on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 1z. Enter the result on line 1 of the worksheet in
Step 5 (instead of entering the actual amount from Form 1040
or 1040-SR, line 1z).
4. Be sure to answer “Yes” to question 2 in Step 5.
Combat pay, nontaxable. If you were a member of the U.S.
Armed Forces who served in a combat zone, certain pay is excluded from your income. See Combat Zone Exclusion in Pub.
3. You can elect to include this pay in your earned income when
figuring the EIC. The amount of your nontaxable combat pay
should be shown in box 12 of Form(s) W-2 with code Q. If you
are filing a joint return and both you and your spouse received
nontaxable combat pay, you can each make your own election.
In other words, if one of you makes the election, the other one
can also make it but doesn't have to.

!

If you elect to use your nontaxable combat pay in figuring your EIC, enter that amount on line 1i.

CAUTION

Credit figured by the IRS. To have the IRS figure your EIC:
1. Enter “EIC” on the dotted line next to line 27.
2. Be sure you enter the nontaxable combat pay you elect to
include in earned income by entering that amount on line 1i.
See Combat pay, nontaxable, earlier.
3. If you have a qualifying child, complete and attach
Schedule EIC. If your EIC for a year after 1996 was reduced or
disallowed, see Form 8862, who must file, later.
Exception to time lived with you. Temporary absences by you
or the child for special circumstances, such as school, vacation,
business, medical care, military service, or detention in a juvenile facility, count as time the child lived with you. Also see
Kidnapped child under Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, earlier, and Members of the military, later. A child is considered to
have lived with you for more than half of 2022 if the child was
born or died in 2022 and your home was this child's home for
more than half the time the child was alive in 2022 or if you
adopted the child in 2022, the child was lawfully placed with
you for legal adoption by you in 2022, or the child was an eligible foster child placed with you during 2022 and your main
home was the child's main home for more than half the time
since the child was adopted or placed with you in 2022.
Form 4797 filers. If the amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 7, includes an amount from Form 4797, you must use
Worksheet 1 in Pub. 596 to see if you can take the EIC. Otherwise, stop; you can't take the EIC.
Form 8862, who must file. You must file Form 8862 if your
EIC for a year after 1996 was reduced or disallowed for any

reason other than a math or clerical error. But don’t file Form
8862 if either of the following applies.
• You filed Form 8862 for another year, the EIC was allowed for that year, and your EIC hasn't been reduced or disallowed again for any reason other than a math or clerical error.
• You are taking the EIC without a qualifying child and the
only reason your EIC was reduced or disallowed in the other
year was because it was determined that a child listed on Schedule EIC wasn't your qualifying child.
Also, don’t file Form 8862 or take the credit for the:
• 2 years after the most recent tax year for which there was
a final determination that your EIC claim was due to reckless or
intentional disregard of the EIC rules, or
• 10 years after the most recent tax year for which there was
a final determination that your EIC claim was due to fraud.
Foster child. A foster child is any child placed with you by an
authorized placement agency or by judgment, decree, or other
order of any court of competent jurisdiction. For more details on
authorized placement agencies, see Pub. 596.
Married child. A child who was married at the end of 2022 is
a qualifying child only if (a) you can claim the child as your dependent, or (b) you could have claimed the child as your dependent except for the special rule for Children of divorced or
separated parents under Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, earlier.
Members of the military. If you were on extended active duty
outside the United States, your main home is considered to be in
the United States during that duty period. Extended active duty
is military duty ordered for an indefinite period or for a period
of more than 90 days. Once you begin serving extended active
duty, you are considered to be on extended active duty even if
you don’t serve more than 90 days.
Nonresident aliens. If your filing status is married filing jointly, go to Step 2. Otherwise, stop; you can't take the EIC. Enter
“No” on the dotted line next to line 27.
Permanently and totally disabled. A person is permanently
and totally disabled if, at any time in 2022, the person couldn't
engage in any substantial gainful activity because of a physical
or mental condition and a doctor has determined that this condition (a) has lasted or can be expected to last continuously for at
least a year, or (b) can be expected to lead to death.
Qualifying child of more than one person. Even if a child
meets the conditions to be the qualifying child of more than one
person, only one person can claim the child as a qualifying child
for all of the following tax benefits, unless the special rule for
Children of divorced or separated parents under Who Qualifies
as Your Dependent, earlier, applies.
1. Child tax credit, credit for other dependents, and additional child tax credit (lines 19 and 28).
2. Head of household filing status.
3. Credit for child and dependent care expenses (Schedule
3, line 2).
4. Exclusion for dependent care benefits (Form 2441, Part
III).
5. Earned income credit (line 27).

-41-

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

No other person can take any of the five tax benefits just listed
based on the qualifying child. If you and any other person can
claim the child as a qualifying child, the following rules apply.
For purposes of these rules, the term “parent”means a biological
or adoptive parent of an individual. It doesn't include a stepparent or foster parent unless that person has adopted the individual.
• If only one of the persons is the child's parent, the child is
treated as the qualifying child of the parent.
• If the parents file a joint return together and can claim the
child as a qualifying child, the child is treated as the qualifying
child of the parents.
• If the parents don’t file a joint return together but both parents claim the child as a qualifying child, the IRS will treat the
child as the qualifying child of the parent with whom the child
lived for the longer period of time in 2022. If the child lived
with each parent for the same amount of time, the IRS will treat
the child as the qualifying child of the parent who had the higher adjusted gross income (AGI) for 2022.
• If no parent can claim the child as a qualifying child, the
child is treated as the qualifying child of the person who had the
highest AGI for 2022.
• If a parent can claim the child as a qualifying child but no
parent does so claim the child, the child is treated as the qualifying child of the person who had the highest AGI for 2022, but
only if that person's AGI is higher than the highest AGI of any
parent of the child who can claim the child.
If, under these rules, you can't claim a child as a qualiTIP fying child for the EIC, you may be able to claim the
EIC under the rules for a taxpayer without a qualifying
child. For more information, see Pub. 596.
Example. Your child J, meets the conditions to be a qualifying child for both you and your parent. J doesn't meet the conditions to be a qualifying child of any other person, including J’s
other parent. Under the rules just described, you can claim J as a
qualifying child for all of the five tax benefits listed here for
which you otherwise qualify. Your parent can't claim any of the
five tax benefits listed here based on J. However, if your parent’s AGI is higher than yours and you don’t claim J as a qualifying child, J is the qualifying child of your parent.
For more details and examples, see Pub. 596.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Social security number (SSN). For the EIC, a valid SSN is a
number issued by the Social Security Administration unless
“Not Valid for Employment” is printed on the social security
card and the number was issued solely to allow the recipient of
the SSN to apply for or receive a federally funded benefit. However, if “Valid for Work Only With DHS Authorization” is printed on your social security card, your SSN is valid for EIC purposes only as long as the DHS authorization is still valid.
To find out how to get an SSN, see Social Security Number
(SSN) near the beginning of these instructions. If you won't
have an SSN by the date your return is due, see What if You
Can't File on Time?
If you didn't have an SSN issued on or before the due date of
your 2022 return (including extensions), you can't claim the EIC
on your original or an amended 2022 return. If a child didn't
have an SSN issued on or before the due date of your return (including extensions), you can't count that child as a qualifying
child in figuring the amount of the EIC on your original or an
amended 2022 return.
Student. A student is a child who during any part of 5 calendar
months of 2022 was enrolled as a full-time student at a school
or took a full-time, on-farm training course given by a school or
a state, county, or local government agency. A school includes a
technical, trade, or mechanical school. It doesn't include an
on-the-job training course, correspondence school, or school offering courses only through the Internet.
Welfare benefits, effect of credit on. Any refund you receive
as a result of taking the EIC can't be counted as income when
determining if you or anyone else is eligible for benefits or assistance, or how much you or anyone else can receive, under
any federal program or under any state or local program financed in whole or in part with federal funds. These programs
include Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF),
Medicaid, Supplemental Security Income (SSI), and Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (formerly food stamps). In
addition, when determining eligibility, the refund can't be counted as a resource for at least 12 months after you receive it.
Check with your local benefit coordinator to find out if your refund will affect your benefits.

-42-

Worksheet

A—2022 EIC—Line 27

Before you begin:

Keep for Your Records

Be sure you are using the correct worksheet. Use this worksheet only if you
answered “No” to Step 5, question 2. Otherwise, use Worksheet B.

Part 1

1.

Enter your earned income from Step 5.

All Filers Using
Worksheet A

2.

Look up the amount on line 1 above in the EIC Table (right after
Worksheet B) to find the credit. Be sure you use the correct column
for your filing status and the number of qualifying children you have who
have a valid SSN as defined earlier. Enter the credit here.

1

2

STOP

If line 2 is zero,
You can’t take the credit.
Enter “No” on the dotted line next to Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 27.

3.

Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11.

4.

Are the amounts on lines 3 and 1 the same?

3

Yes. Skip line 5; enter the amount from line 2 on line 6.
No.
5.

Part 2

Filers Who
Answered
“No” on
Line 4

Part 3

Your Earned
Income Credit

Go to line 5.

If you have:
● No qualifying children who have a valid SSN, is the amount on
line 3 less than $9,200 ($15,300 if married filing jointly)?
● 1 or more qualifying children who have a valid SSN, is the amount
on line 3 less than $20,150 ($26,300 if married filing jointly)?
Yes. Leave line 5 blank; enter the amount from line 2 on line 6.
No. Look up the amount on line 3 in the EIC Table to find the
credit. Be sure you use the correct column for your filing
status and the number of qualifying children you have who
have a valid SSN. Enter the credit here.
Look at the amounts on lines 5 and 2.
Then, enter the smaller amount on line 6.

6.

5

This is your earned income credit.

6
Enter this amount on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 27.

Reminder—

1040 or
If you have a qualifying child, complete and attach Schedule EIC. 1040-SR

CAUTION

EIC

10o4r0

R

1040-S

If your EIC for a year after 1996 was reduced or disallowed, see
Form 8862, who must file, earlier, to find out if you must file Form 8862 to
take the credit for 2022.

-43-

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Worksheet

B—2022 EIC—Line 27

Keep for Your Records

Use this worksheet if you answered “Yes” to Step 5, question 2.
Complete the parts below (Parts 1 through 3) that apply to you. Then, continue to Part 4.
If you are married filing a joint return, include your spouse’s amounts, if any, with yours to figure the amounts to
enter in Parts 1 through 3.

Part 1

Self-Employed,
Members of the
Clergy, and
People With
Church Employee
Income Filing
Schedule SE
Part 2

Self-Employed
NOT Required
To File
Schedule SE
For example, your
net earnings from
self-employment
were less than $400.

1a. Enter the amount from Schedule SE, Part I, line 3.

1a

b. Enter any amount from Schedule SE, Part I, line 4b and line 5a.

+ 1b

c. Combine lines 1a and 1b.

= 1c

d. Enter the amount from Schedule SE, Part I, line 13.

– 1d

e. Subtract line 1d from line 1c.

= 1e

2.

Don’t include on these lines any statutory employee income, any net profit from services performed as a
notary public, any amount exempt from self-employment tax as the result of the filing and approval of Form
4029 or Form 4361, or any other amounts exempt from self-employment tax.

a. Enter any net farm profit or (loss) from Schedule F, line 34; and
from farm partnerships, Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), box 14, code A*.

2a

b. Enter any net profit or (loss) from Schedule C, line 31; and Schedule
K-1 (Form 1065), box 14, code A (other than farming)*.

+ 2b

c. Combine lines 2a and 2b.

= 2c

* If you have any Schedule K-1 amounts, complete the appropriate line(s) of Schedule SE, Part I.
Reduce the Schedule K-1 amounts as described in the Partner’s Instructions for Schedule K-1. Enter
your name and social security number on Schedule SE and attach it to your return.

Part 3

Statutory Employees
Filing Schedule C

3.

Enter the amount from Schedule C, line 1, that you are filing as a
statutory employee.

Part 4

4a. Enter your earned income from Step 5.

All Filers Using
Worksheet B

b. Combine lines 1e, 2c, 3, and 4a. This is your total earned income.

Note. If line 4b
includes income on
which you should
have paid selfemployment tax but
didn’t, we may
reduce your credit by
the amount of
self-employment tax
not paid.

If line 4b is zero or less,
or 1040-SR, line 27.
5.

STOP

3

4a
4b

You can’t take the credit. Enter “No” on the dotted line next to Form 1040

If you have:
● 3 or more qualifying children who have valid SSNs, is line 4b less than $53,057 ($59,187 if married
filing jointly)?
● 2 qualifying children who have valid SSNs, is line 4b less than $49,399 ($55,529 if married filing jointly)?
● 1 qualifying child who has a valid SSN, is line 4b less than $43,492 ($49,622 if married filing jointly)?
● No qualifying children who have valid SSNs, is line 4b less than $16,480 ($22,610 if married filing jointly)?
Yes. If you want the IRS to figure your credit, see Credit figured by the IRS, earlier. If you want to
figure the credit yourself, enter the amount from line 4b on line 6 of this worksheet.
STOP

No.
You can’t take the credit. Enter “No” on the dotted line next to Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 27.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

-44-

Worksheet

B —2022 EIC—Line 27—Continued

Part 5

All Filers Using
Worksheet B

Keep for Your Records

6

6.

Enter your total earned income from Part 4, line 4b.

7.

Look up the amount on line 6 above in the EIC Table to find
the credit. Be sure you use the correct column for your filing status and
the number of qualifying children you have who have a valid SSN. Enter
the credit here.

7

If line 7 is zero, STOP You can’t take the credit.
Enter “No” on the dotted line next to Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 27.
8.

Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 11.

9.

Are the amounts on lines 8 and 6 the same?

8

Yes. Skip line 10; enter the amount from line 7 on line 11.
No. Go to line 10.

Part 6

10.

Filers Who
Answered
“No” on
Line 9

If you have:
● No qualifying children who have a valid SSN, is the amount on line 8
less than $9,200 ($15,300 if married filing jointly)?
● 1 or more qualifying children who have a valid SSN, is the amount on
line 8 less than $20,150 ($26,300 if married filing jointly)?
Yes. Leave line 10 blank; enter the amount from line 7 on line 11.
No. Look up the amount on line 8 in the EIC Table to find the
credit. Be sure you use the correct column for your filing status
and the number of qualifying children you have who have a valid
SSN. Enter the credit here.
Look at the amounts on lines 10 and 7.
Then, enter the smaller amount on line 11.

Part 7

Your Earned
Income Credit

11.

10

This is your earned income credit.

11

Reminder—

Enter this amount on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 27.

If you have a qualifying child, complete and attach Schedule EIC. 1040 or
1040-SR

EIC

CAUTION

10o4r0

R

1040-S

If your EIC for a year after 1996 was reduced or disallowed, see
Form 8862, who must file, earlier, to find out if you must file Form
8862 to take the credit for 2022.

-45-

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

2022 Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table
Caution. This is not a tax table.
1. To find your credit, read down
the “At least - But less than”
columns and find the line that
includes the amount you were told
to look up from your EIC
Worksheet.

2. Then, go to the column that
includes your filing status and the
number of qualifying children you
have who have valid SSNs as
defined earlier. Enter the credit from
that column on your EIC Worksheet.

And your filing status is—

If the amount you are
looking up from the
worksheet is—

0

Example. If your filing status is
single, you have one qualifying
child who has a valid SSN, and the
amount you are looking up from
your EIC Worksheet is $2,455, you
would enter $842.

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

2,400
2,450

1

2

3

0

1

2

If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

3

At least

But less
than

1
50
100
150

50
100
150
200

2
6
10
13

9
26
43
60

10
30
50
70

11
34
56
79

2
6
10
13

9
26
43
60

10
30
50
70

200
250
300
350

250
300
350
400

17
21
25
29

77
94
111
128

90
110
130
150

101
124
146
169

17
21
25
29

77
94
111
128

400
450
500
550

450
500
550
600

33
36
40
44

145
162
179
196

170
190
210
230

191
214
236
259

33
36
40
44

600
650
700
750

650
700
750
800

48
52
55
59

213
230
247
264

250
270
290
310

281
304
326
349

800
850
900
950

850
900
950
1,000

63
67
71
75

281
298
315
332

330
350
370
390

1,000
1,050
1,100
1,150

1,050
1,100
1,150
1,200

78
82
86
90

349
366
383
400

1,200
1,250
1,300
1,350

1,250
1,300
1,350
1,400

94
98
101
105

1,400
1,450
1,500
1,550

1,450
1,500
1,550
1,600

1,600
1,650
1,700
1,750

★

1

2

3

970
990

1,091
1,114

Your credit is—

2,450
2,500

186
189

825
842

And your filing status is–

Married filing jointly and you
have–

Your credit is–

But less
than

At least

And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

Single, head of household, or
qualifying surviving spouse and
the number of children you have is—

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

Your credit is–

1

2

3

Married filing jointly and you
have–
0

Your credit is–

1

2

3

At least

But less
than

Your credit is–

11
34
56
79

2,800
2,850
2,900
2,950

2,850
2,900
2,950
3,000

216
220
224
228

961
978
995
1,012

1,130
1,150
1,170
1,190

1,271
1,294
1,316
1,339

216
220
224
228

961
978
995
1,012

1,130
1,150
1,170
1,190

1,271
1,294
1,316
1,339

90
110
130
150

101
124
146
169

3,000
3,050
3,100
3,150

3,050
3,100
3,150
3,200

231
235
239
243

1,029
1,046
1,063
1,080

1,210
1,230
1,250
1,270

1,361
1,384
1,406
1,429

231
235
239
243

1,029
1,046
1,063
1,080

1,210
1,230
1,250
1,270

1,361
1,384
1,406
1,429

145
162
179
196

170
190
210
230

191
214
236
259

3,200
3,250
3,300
3,350

3,250
3,300
3,350
3,400

247
251
254
258

1,097
1,114
1,131
1,148

1,290
1,310
1,330
1,350

1,451
1,474
1,496
1,519

247
251
254
258

1,097
1,114
1,131
1,148

1,290
1,310
1,330
1,350

1,451
1,474
1,496
1,519

48
52
55
59

213
230
247
264

250
270
290
310

281
304
326
349

3,400
3,450
3,500
3,550

3,450
3,500
3,550
3,600

262
266
270
273

1,165
1,182
1,199
1,216

1,370
1,390
1,410
1,430

1,541
1,564
1,586
1,609

262
266
270
273

1,165
1,182
1,199
1,216

1,370
1,390
1,410
1,430

1,541
1,564
1,586
1,609

371
394
416
439

63
67
71
75

281
298
315
332

330
350
370
390

371
394
416
439

3,600
3,650
3,700
3,750

3,650
3,700
3,750
3,800

277
281
285
289

1,233
1,250
1,267
1,284

1,450
1,470
1,490
1,510

1,631
1,654
1,676
1,699

277
281
285
289

1,233
1,250
1,267
1,284

1,450
1,470
1,490
1,510

1,631
1,654
1,676
1,699

410
430
450
470

461
484
506
529

78
82
86
90

349
366
383
400

410
430
450
470

461
484
506
529

3,800
3,850
3,900
3,950

3,850
3,900
3,950
4,000

293
296
300
304

1,301
1,318
1,335
1,352

1,530
1,550
1,570
1,590

1,721
1,744
1,766
1,789

293
296
300
304

1,301
1,318
1,335
1,352

1,530
1,550
1,570
1,590

1,721
1,744
1,766
1,789

417
434
451
468

490
510
530
550

551
574
596
619

94
98
101
105

417
434
451
468

490
510
530
550

551
574
596
619

4,000
4,050
4,100
4,150

4,050
4,100
4,150
4,200

308
312
316
319

1,369
1,386
1,403
1,420

1,610
1,630
1,650
1,670

1,811
1,834
1,856
1,879

308
312
316
319

1,369
1,386
1,403
1,420

1,610
1,630
1,650
1,670

1,811
1,834
1,856
1,879

109
113
117
120

485
502
519
536

570
590
610
630

641
664
686
709

109
113
117
120

485
502
519
536

570
590
610
630

641
664
686
709

4,200
4,250
4,300
4,350

4,250
4,300
4,350
4,400

323
327
331
335

1,437
1,454
1,471
1,488

1,690
1,710
1,730
1,750

1,901
1,924
1,946
1,969

323
327
331
335

1,437
1,454
1,471
1,488

1,690
1,710
1,730
1,750

1,901
1,924
1,946
1,969

1,650
1,700
1,750
1,800

124
128
132
136

553
570
587
604

650
670
690
710

731
754
776
799

124
128
132
136

553
570
587
604

650
670
690
710

731
754
776
799

4,400
4,450
4,500
4,550

4,450
4,500
4,550
4,600

339
342
346
350

1,505
1,522
1,539
1,556

1,770
1,790
1,810
1,830

1,991
2,014
2,036
2,059

339
342
346
350

1,505
1,522
1,539
1,556

1,770
1,790
1,810
1,830

1,991
2,014
2,036
2,059

1,800
1,850
1,900
1,950

1,850
1,900
1,950
2,000

140
143
147
151

621
638
655
672

730
750
770
790

821
844
866
889

140
143
147
151

621
638
655
672

730
750
770
790

821
844
866
889

4,600
4,650
4,700
4,750

4,650
4,700
4,750
4,800

354
358
361
365

1,573
1,590
1,607
1,624

1,850
1,870
1,890
1,910

2,081
2,104
2,126
2,149

354
358
361
365

1,573
1,590
1,607
1,624

1,850
1,870
1,890
1,910

2,081
2,104
2,126
2,149

2,000
2,050
2,100
2,150

2,050
2,100
2,150
2,200

155
159
163
166

689
706
723
740

810
830
850
870

911
934
956
979

155
159
163
166

689
706
723
740

810
830
850
870

911
934
956
979

4,800
4,850
4,900
4,950

4,850
4,900
4,950
5,000

369
373
377
381

1,641
1,658
1,675
1,692

1,930
1,950
1,970
1,990

2,171
2,194
2,216
2,239

369
373
377
381

1,641
1,658
1,675
1,692

1,930
1,950
1,970
1,990

2,171
2,194
2,216
2,239

2,200
2,250
2,300
2,350

2,250
2,300
2,350
2,400

170
174
178
182

757
774
791
808

890
910
930
950

1,001
1,024
1,046
1,069

170
174
178
182

757
774
791
808

890
910
930
950

1,001
1,024
1,046
1,069

5,000
5,050
5,100
5,150

5,050
5,100
5,150
5,200

384
388
392
396

1,709
1,726
1,743
1,760

2,010
2,030
2,050
2,070

2,261
2,284
2,306
2,329

384
388
392
396

1,709
1,726
1,743
1,760

2,010
2,030
2,050
2,070

2,261
2,284
2,306
2,329

2,400
2,450
2,500
2,550

2,450
2,500
2,550
2,600

186
189
193
197

825
842
859
876

970
990
1,010
1,030

1,091
1,114
1,136
1,159

186
189
193
197

825
842
859
876

970
990
1,010
1,030

1,091
1,114
1,136
1,159

5,200
5,250
5,300
5,350

5,250
5,300
5,350
5,400

400
404
407
411

1,777
1,794
1,811
1,828

2,090
2,110
2,130
2,150

2,351
2,374
2,396
2,419

400
404
407
411

1,777
1,794
1,811
1,828

2,090
2,110
2,130
2,150

2,351
2,374
2,396
2,419

2,600
2,650
2,700
2,750

2,650
2,700
2,750
2,800

201
205
208
212

893
910
927
944

1,050
1,070
1,090
1,110

1,181
1,204
1,226
1,249

201
205
208
212

893
910
927
944

1,050
1,070
1,090
1,110

1,181
1,204
1,226
1,249

5,400
5,450
5,500
5,550

5,450
5,500
5,550
5,600

415
419
423
426

1,845
1,862
1,879
1,896

2,170
2,190
2,210
2,230

2,441
2,464
2,486
2,509

415
419
423
426

1,845
1,862
1,879
1,896

2,170
2,190
2,210
2,230

2,441
2,464
2,486
2,509

Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.

(Continued)

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

- 46 -

Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table - Continued

(Caution. This is not a tax table.)

And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

1

2

3

And your filing status is–

Married filing jointly and you
have–
0

2

But less
than

5,600
5,650
5,700
5,750

5,650
5,700
5,750
5,800

430
434
438
442

1,913
1,930
1,947
1,964

2,250
2,270
2,290
2,310

2,531
2,554
2,576
2,599

430
434
438
442

1,913
1,930
1,947
1,964

2,250
2,270
2,290
2,310

5,800
5,850
5,900
5,950

5,850
5,900
5,950
6,000

446
449
453
457

1,981
1,998
2,015
2,032

2,330
2,350
2,370
2,390

2,621
2,644
2,666
2,689

446
449
453
457

1,981
1,998
2,015
2,032

6,000
6,050
6,100
6,150

6,050
6,100
6,150
6,200

461
465
469
472

2,049
2,066
2,083
2,100

2,410
2,430
2,450
2,470

2,711
2,734
2,756
2,779

461
465
469
472

6,200
6,250
6,300
6,350

6,250
6,300
6,350
6,400

476
480
484
488

2,117
2,134
2,151
2,168

2,490
2,510
2,530
2,550

2,801
2,824
2,846
2,869

6,400
6,450
6,500
6,550

6,450
6,500
6,550
6,600

492
495
499
503

2,185
2,202
2,219
2,236

2,570
2,590
2,610
2,630

6,600
6,650
6,700
6,750

6,650
6,700
6,750
6,800

507
511
514
518

2,253
2,270
2,287
2,304

6,800
6,850
6,900
6,950

6,850
6,900
6,950
7,000

522
526
530
534

7,000
7,050
7,100
7,150

7,050
7,100
7,150
7,200

7,200
7,250
7,300
7,350

★

Your credit is–

1

At least

If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

3

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

Your credit is–

1

2

3

Married filing jointly and you
have–
0

Your credit is–

1

2

3

At least

But less
than

Your credit is–

2,531
2,554
2,576
2,599

8,800
8,850
8,900
8,950

8,850
8,900
8,950
9,000

560
560
560
560

3,001
3,018
3,035
3,052

3,530
3,550
3,570
3,590

3,971
3,994
4,016
4,039

560
560
560
560

3,001
3,018
3,035
3,052

3,530
3,550
3,570
3,590

3,971
3,994
4,016
4,039

2,330
2,350
2,370
2,390

2,621
2,644
2,666
2,689

9,000
9,050
9,100
9,150

9,050
9,100
9,150
9,200

560
560
560
560

3,069
3,086
3,103
3,120

3,610
3,630
3,650
3,670

4,061
4,084
4,106
4,129

560
560
560
560

3,069
3,086
3,103
3,120

3,610
3,630
3,650
3,670

4,061
4,084
4,106
4,129

2,049
2,066
2,083
2,100

2,410
2,430
2,450
2,470

2,711
2,734
2,756
2,779

9,200
9,250
9,300
9,350

9,250
9,300
9,350
9,400

555
551
547
544

3,137
3,154
3,171
3,188

3,690
3,710
3,730
3,750

4,151
4,174
4,196
4,219

560
560
560
560

3,137
3,154
3,171
3,188

3,690
3,710
3,730
3,750

4,151
4,174
4,196
4,219

476
480
484
488

2,117
2,134
2,151
2,168

2,490
2,510
2,530
2,550

2,801
2,824
2,846
2,869

9,400
9,450
9,500
9,550

9,450
9,500
9,550
9,600

540
536
532
528

3,205
3,222
3,239
3,256

3,770
3,790
3,810
3,830

4,241
4,264
4,286
4,309

560
560
560
560

3,205
3,222
3,239
3,256

3,770
3,790
3,810
3,830

4,241
4,264
4,286
4,309

2,891
2,914
2,936
2,959

492
495
499
503

2,185
2,202
2,219
2,236

2,570
2,590
2,610
2,630

2,891
2,914
2,936
2,959

9,600
9,650
9,700
9,750

9,650
9,700
9,750
9,800

524
521
517
513

3,273
3,290
3,307
3,324

3,850
3,870
3,890
3,910

4,331
4,354
4,376
4,399

560
560
560
560

3,273
3,290
3,307
3,324

3,850
3,870
3,890
3,910

4,331
4,354
4,376
4,399

2,650
2,670
2,690
2,710

2,981
3,004
3,026
3,049

507
511
514
518

2,253
2,270
2,287
2,304

2,650
2,670
2,690
2,710

2,981
3,004
3,026
3,049

9,800
9,850
9,900
9,950

9,850
9,900
9,950
10,000

509
505
501
498

3,341
3,358
3,375
3,392

3,930
3,950
3,970
3,990

4,421
4,444
4,466
4,489

560
560
560
560

3,341
3,358
3,375
3,392

3,930
3,950
3,970
3,990

4,421
4,444
4,466
4,489

2,321
2,338
2,355
2,372

2,730
2,750
2,770
2,790

3,071
3,094
3,116
3,139

522
526
530
534

2,321
2,338
2,355
2,372

2,730
2,750
2,770
2,790

3,071
3,094
3,116
3,139

10,000
10,050
10,100
10,150

10,050
10,100
10,150
10,200

494
490
486
482

3,409
3,426
3,443
3,460

4,010
4,030
4,050
4,070

4,511
4,534
4,556
4,579

560
560
560
560

3,409
3,426
3,443
3,460

4,010
4,030
4,050
4,070

4,511
4,534
4,556
4,579

537
541
545
549

2,389
2,406
2,423
2,440

2,810
2,830
2,850
2,870

3,161
3,184
3,206
3,229

537
541
545
549

2,389
2,406
2,423
2,440

2,810
2,830
2,850
2,870

3,161
3,184
3,206
3,229

10,200
10,250
10,300
10,350

10,250
10,300
10,350
10,400

479
475
471
467

3,477
3,494
3,511
3,528

4,090
4,110
4,130
4,150

4,601
4,624
4,646
4,669

560
560
560
560

3,477
3,494
3,511
3,528

4,090
4,110
4,130
4,150

4,601
4,624
4,646
4,669

7,250
7,300
7,350
7,400

553
557
560
560

2,457
2,474
2,491
2,508

2,890
2,910
2,930
2,950

3,251
3,274
3,296
3,319

553
557
560
560

2,457
2,474
2,491
2,508

2,890
2,910
2,930
2,950

3,251
3,274
3,296
3,319

10,400
10,450
10,500
10,550

10,450
10,500
10,550
10,600

463
459
456
452

3,545
3,562
3,579
3,596

4,170
4,190
4,210
4,230

4,691
4,714
4,736
4,759

560
560
560
560

3,545
3,562
3,579
3,596

4,170
4,190
4,210
4,230

4,691
4,714
4,736
4,759

7,400
7,450
7,500
7,550

7,450
7,500
7,550
7,600

560
560
560
560

2,525
2,542
2,559
2,576

2,970
2,990
3,010
3,030

3,341
3,364
3,386
3,409

560
560
560
560

2,525
2,542
2,559
2,576

2,970
2,990
3,010
3,030

3,341
3,364
3,386
3,409

10,600
10,650
10,700
10,750

10,650
10,700
10,750
10,800

448
444
440
436

3,613
3,630
3,647
3,664

4,250
4,270
4,290
4,310

4,781
4,804
4,826
4,849

560
560
560
560

3,613
3,630
3,647
3,664

4,250
4,270
4,290
4,310

4,781
4,804
4,826
4,849

7,600
7,650
7,700
7,750

7,650
7,700
7,750
7,800

560
560
560
560

2,593
2,610
2,627
2,644

3,050
3,070
3,090
3,110

3,431
3,454
3,476
3,499

560
560
560
560

2,593
2,610
2,627
2,644

3,050
3,070
3,090
3,110

3,431
3,454
3,476
3,499

10,800
10,850
10,900
10,950

10,850
10,900
10,950
11,000

433
429
425
421

3,681
3,698
3,715
3,733

4,330
4,350
4,370
4,390

4,871
4,894
4,916
4,939

560
560
560
560

3,681
3,698
3,715
3,733

4,330
4,350
4,370
4,390

4,871
4,894
4,916
4,939

7,800
7,850
7,900
7,950

7,850
7,900
7,950
8,000

560
560
560
560

2,661
2,678
2,695
2,712

3,130
3,150
3,170
3,190

3,521
3,544
3,566
3,589

560
560
560
560

2,661
2,678
2,695
2,712

3,130
3,150
3,170
3,190

3,521
3,544
3,566
3,589

11,000
11,050
11,100
11,150

11,050
11,100
11,150
11,200

417
413
410
406

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

4,410
4,430
4,450
4,470

4,961
4,984
5,006
5,029

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

4,410
4,430
4,450
4,470

4,961
4,984
5,006
5,029

8,000
8,050
8,100
8,150

8,050
8,100
8,150
8,200

560
560
560
560

2,729
2,746
2,763
2,780

3,210
3,230
3,250
3,270

3,611
3,634
3,656
3,679

560
560
560
560

2,729
2,746
2,763
2,780

3,210
3,230
3,250
3,270

3,611
3,634
3,656
3,679

11,200
11,250
11,300
11,350

11,250
11,300
11,350
11,400

402
398
394
391

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

4,490
4,510
4,530
4,550

5,051
5,074
5,096
5,119

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

4,490
4,510
4,530
4,550

5,051
5,074
5,096
5,119

8,200
8,250
8,300
8,350

8,250
8,300
8,350
8,400

560
560
560
560

2,797
2,814
2,831
2,848

3,290
3,310
3,330
3,350

3,701
3,724
3,746
3,769

560
560
560
560

2,797
2,814
2,831
2,848

3,290
3,310
3,330
3,350

3,701
3,724
3,746
3,769

11,400
11,450
11,500
11,550

11,450
11,500
11,550
11,600

387
383
379
375

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

4,570
4,590
4,610
4,630

5,141
5,164
5,186
5,209

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

4,570
4,590
4,610
4,630

5,141
5,164
5,186
5,209

8,400
8,450
8,500
8,550

8,450
8,500
8,550
8,600

560
560
560
560

2,865
2,882
2,899
2,916

3,370
3,390
3,410
3,430

3,791
3,814
3,836
3,859

560
560
560
560

2,865
2,882
2,899
2,916

3,370
3,390
3,410
3,430

3,791
3,814
3,836
3,859

11,600
11,650
11,700
11,750

11,650
11,700
11,750
11,800

371
368
364
360

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

4,650
4,670
4,690
4,710

5,231
5,254
5,276
5,299

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

4,650
4,670
4,690
4,710

5,231
5,254
5,276
5,299

8,600
8,650
8,700
8,750

8,650
8,700
8,750
8,800

560
560
560
560

2,933
2,950
2,967
2,984

3,450
3,470
3,490
3,510

3,881
3,904
3,926
3,949

560
560
560
560

2,933
2,950
2,967
2,984

3,450
3,470
3,490
3,510

3,881
3,904
3,926
3,949

11,800
11,850
11,900
11,950

11,850
11,900
11,950
12,000

356
352
348
345

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

4,730
4,750
4,770
4,790

5,321
5,344
5,366
5,389

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

4,730
4,750
4,770
4,790

5,321
5,344
5,366
5,389

Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.

(Continued)

- 47 -

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table - Continued

(Caution. This is not a tax table.)

And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

*

1

2

3

And your filing status is–

Married filing jointly and you
have–
0

Your credit is–

1

2

At least

But less
than

12,000
12,050
12,100
12,150

12,050
12,100
12,150
12,200

341
337
333
329

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

4,810
4,830
4,850
4,870

5,411
5,434
5,456
5,479

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

4,810
4,830
4,850
4,870

12,200
12,250
12,300
12,350

12,250
12,300
12,350
12,400

326
322
318
314

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

4,890
4,910
4,930
4,950

5,501
5,524
5,546
5,569

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

12,400
12,450
12,500
12,550

12,450
12,500
12,550
12,600

310
306
303
299

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

4,970
4,990
5,010
5,030

5,591
5,614
5,636
5,659

560
560
560
560

12,600
12,650
12,700
12,750

12,650
12,700
12,750
12,800

295
291
287
283

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,050
5,070
5,090
5,110

5,681
5,704
5,726
5,749

12,800
12,850
12,900
12,950

12,850
12,900
12,950
13,000

280
276
272
268

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,130
5,150
5,170
5,190

13,000
13,050
13,100
13,150

13,050
13,100
13,150
13,200

264
260
257
253

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

13,200
13,250
13,300
13,350

13,250
13,300
13,350
13,400

249
245
241
238

13,400
13,450
13,500
13,550

13,450
13,500
13,550
13,600

13,600
13,650
13,700
13,750

If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

3

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

Your credit is–

1

2

3

Married filing jointly and you
have–
0

Your credit is–

1

2

3

At least

But less
than

Your credit is–

5,411
5,434
5,456
5,479

15,200
15,250
15,300
15,350

15,250
15,300
15,350
15,400

96
92
88
85

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,090
6,110
6,130
6,150

6,851
6,874
6,896
6,919

560
560
557
553

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,090
6,110
6,130
6,150

6,851
6,874
6,896
6,919

4,890
4,910
4,930
4,950

5,501
5,524
5,546
5,569

15,400
15,450
15,500
15,550

15,450
15,500
15,550
15,600

81
77
73
69

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

550
546
542
538

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

4,970
4,990
5,010
5,030

5,591
5,614
5,636
5,659

15,600
15,650
15,700
15,750

15,650
15,700
15,750
15,800

65
62
58
54

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

534
531
527
523

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,050
5,070
5,090
5,110

5,681
5,704
5,726
5,749

15,800
15,850
15,900
15,950

15,850
15,900
15,950
16,000

50
46
42
39

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

519
515
511
508

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

5,771
5,794
5,816
5,839

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,130
5,150
5,170
5,190

5,771
5,794
5,816
5,839

16,000
16,050
16,100
16,150

16,050
16,100
16,150
16,200

35
31
27
23

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

504
500
496
492

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

5,210
5,230
5,250
5,270

5,861
5,884
5,906
5,929

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,210
5,230
5,250
5,270

5,861
5,884
5,906
5,929

16,200
16,250
16,300
16,350

16,250
16,300
16,350
16,400

20
16
12
8

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

488
485
481
477

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,290
5,310
5,330
5,350

5,951
5,974
5,996
6,019

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,290
5,310
5,330
5,350

5,951
5,974
5,996
6,019

16,400
16,450
16,500
16,550

16,450
16,500
16,550
16,600

4
*
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

473
469
466
462

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

234
230
226
222

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,370
5,390
5,410
5,430

6,041
6,064
6,086
6,109

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,370
5,390
5,410
5,430

6,041
6,064
6,086
6,109

16,600
16,650
16,700
16,750

16,650
16,700
16,750
16,800

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

458
454
450
446

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

13,650
13,700
13,750
13,800

218
215
211
207

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,450
5,470
5,490
5,510

6,131
6,154
6,176
6,199

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,450
5,470
5,490
5,510

6,131
6,154
6,176
6,199

16,800
16,850
16,900
16,950

16,850
16,900
16,950
17,000

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

443
439
435
431

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

13,800
13,850
13,900
13,950

13,850
13,900
13,950
14,000

203
199
195
192

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,530
5,550
5,570
5,590

6,221
6,244
6,266
6,289

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,530
5,550
5,570
5,590

6,221
6,244
6,266
6,289

17,000
17,050
17,100
17,150

17,050
17,100
17,150
17,200

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

427
423
420
416

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

14,000
14,050
14,100
14,150

14,050
14,100
14,150
14,200

188
184
180
176

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,610
5,630
5,650
5,670

6,311
6,334
6,356
6,379

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,610
5,630
5,650
5,670

6,311
6,334
6,356
6,379

17,200
17,250
17,300
17,350

17,250
17,300
17,350
17,400

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

412
408
404
400

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

14,200
14,250
14,300
14,350

14,250
14,300
14,350
14,400

173
169
165
161

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,690
5,710
5,730
5,750

6,401
6,424
6,446
6,469

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,690
5,710
5,730
5,750

6,401
6,424
6,446
6,469

17,400
17,450
17,500
17,550

17,450
17,500
17,550
17,600

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

397
393
389
385

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

14,400
14,450
14,500
14,550

14,450
14,500
14,550
14,600

157
153
150
146

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,770
5,790
5,810
5,830

6,491
6,514
6,536
6,559

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,770
5,790
5,810
5,830

6,491
6,514
6,536
6,559

17,600
17,650
17,700
17,750

17,650
17,700
17,750
17,800

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

381
378
374
370

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

14,600
14,650
14,700
14,750

14,650
14,700
14,750
14,800

142
138
134
130

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,850
5,870
5,890
5,910

6,581
6,604
6,626
6,649

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,850
5,870
5,890
5,910

6,581
6,604
6,626
6,649

17,800
17,850
17,900
17,950

17,850
17,900
17,950
18,000

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

366
362
358
355

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

14,800
14,850
14,900
14,950

14,850
14,900
14,950
15,000

127
123
119
115

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,930
5,950
5,970
5,990

6,671
6,694
6,716
6,739

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

5,930
5,950
5,970
5,990

6,671
6,694
6,716
6,739

18,000
18,050
18,100
18,150

18,050
18,100
18,150
18,200

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

351
347
343
339

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

15,000
15,050
15,100
15,150

15,050
15,100
15,150
15,200

111
107
104
100

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,010
6,030
6,050
6,070

6,761
6,784
6,806
6,829

560
560
560
560

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,010
6,030
6,050
6,070

6,761
6,784
6,806
6,829

18,200
18,250
18,300
18,350

18,250
18,300
18,350
18,400

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

335
332
328
324

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

★ Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $16,450 but less than $16,480, and you have no qualifying children who have valid
SSNs, your credit is $1
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $16,480 or more, and you have no qualifying children who have valid SSNs, you can’t take the
credit.

(Continued)

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

- 48 -

Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table - Continued

(Caution. This is not a tax table.)

And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

*

1

2

3

And your filing status is–

Married filing jointly and you
have–
0

1

Your credit is–

2

At least

But less
than

18,400
18,450
18,500
18,550

18,450
18,500
18,550
18,600

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

320
316
313
309

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

18,600
18,650
18,700
18,750

18,650
18,700
18,750
18,800

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

305
301
297
293

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

18,800
18,850
18,900
18,950

18,850
18,900
18,950
19,000

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

290
286
282
278

19,000
19,050
19,100
19,150

19,050
19,100
19,150
19,200

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

19,200
19,250
19,300
19,350

19,250
19,300
19,350
19,400

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

19,400
19,450
19,500
19,550

19,450
19,500
19,550
19,600

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

19,600
19,650
19,700
19,750

19,650
19,700
19,750
19,800

0
0
0
0

19,800
19,850
19,900
19,950

19,850
19,900
19,950
20,000

20,000
20,050
20,100
20,150

If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

3

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

Your credit is–

1

2

3

Married filing jointly and you
have–
0

1

Your credit is–

2

3

At least

But less
than

Your credit is–

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

21,600
21,650
21,700
21,750

21,650
21,700
21,750
21,800

0
0
0
0

3,494
3,486
3,478
3,470

5,849
5,839
5,828
5,818

6,620
6,609
6,599
6,588

75
72
68
64

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

21,800
21,850
21,900
21,950

21,850
21,900
21,950
22,000

0
0
0
0

3,462
3,454
3,446
3,438

5,807
5,797
5,786
5,775

6,578
6,567
6,556
6,546

60
56
52
49

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

22,000
22,050
22,100
22,150

22,050
22,100
22,150
22,200

0
0
0
0

3,430
3,422
3,414
3,406

5,765
5,754
5,744
5,733

6,535
6,525
6,514
6,504

45
41
37
33

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

274
270
267
263

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

22,200
22,250
22,300
22,350

22,250
22,300
22,350
22,400

0
0
0
0

3,398
3,390
3,382
3,374

5,723
5,712
5,702
5,691

6,493
6,483
6,472
6,462

29
26
22
18

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

259
255
251
247

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

22,400
22,450
22,500
22,550

22,450
22,500
22,550
22,600

0
0
0
0

3,366
3,358
3,350
3,342

5,681
5,670
5,660
5,649

6,451
6,441
6,430
6,420

14
10
7
3

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

244
240
236
232

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

22,600
22,650
22,700
22,750

22,650
22,700
22,750
22,800

0
0
0
0

3,334
3,327
3,319
3,311

5,639
5,628
5,617
5,607

6,409
6,399
6,388
6,377

*
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

228
225
221
217

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

22,800
22,850
22,900
22,950

22,850
22,900
22,950
23,000

0
0
0
0

3,303
3,295
3,287
3,279

5,596
5,586
5,575
5,565

6,367
6,356
6,346
6,335

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

213
209
205
202

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

23,000
23,050
23,100
23,150

23,050
23,100
23,150
23,200

0
0
0
0

3,271
3,263
3,255
3,247

5,554
5,544
5,533
5,523

6,325
6,314
6,304
6,293

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

20,050
20,100
20,150
20,200

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,726

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,155

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,925

198
194
190
186

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

23,200
23,250
23,300
23,350

23,250
23,300
23,350
23,400

0
0
0
0

3,239
3,231
3,223
3,215

5,512
5,502
5,491
5,481

6,283
6,272
6,262
6,251

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

20,200
20,250
20,300
20,350

20,250
20,300
20,350
20,400

0
0
0
0

3,718
3,710
3,702
3,694

6,144
6,133
6,123
6,112

6,914
6,904
6,893
6,883

182
179
175
171

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

23,400
23,450
23,500
23,550

23,450
23,500
23,550
23,600

0
0
0
0

3,207
3,199
3,191
3,183

5,470
5,460
5,449
5,438

6,241
6,230
6,220
6,209

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

20,400
20,450
20,500
20,550

20,450
20,500
20,550
20,600

0
0
0
0

3,686
3,678
3,670
3,662

6,102
6,091
6,081
6,070

6,872
6,862
6,851
6,841

167
163
160
156

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

23,600
23,650
23,700
23,750

23,650
23,700
23,750
23,800

0
0
0
0

3,175
3,167
3,159
3,151

5,428
5,417
5,407
5,396

6,198
6,188
6,177
6,167

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

20,600
20,650
20,700
20,750

20,650
20,700
20,750
20,800

0
0
0
0

3,654
3,646
3,638
3,630

6,060
6,049
6,039
6,028

6,830
6,820
6,809
6,799

152
148
144
140

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

23,800
23,850
23,900
23,950

23,850
23,900
23,950
24,000

0
0
0
0

3,143
3,135
3,127
3,119

5,386
5,375
5,365
5,354

6,156
6,146
6,135
6,125

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

20,800
20,850
20,900
20,950

20,850
20,900
20,950
21,000

0
0
0
0

3,622
3,614
3,606
3,598

6,018
6,007
5,997
5,986

6,788
6,778
6,767
6,757

137
133
129
125

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

24,000
24,050
24,100
24,150

24,050
24,100
24,150
24,200

0
0
0
0

3,111
3,103
3,095
3,087

5,344
5,333
5,323
5,312

6,114
6,104
6,093
6,083

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

21,000
21,050
21,100
21,150

21,050
21,100
21,150
21,200

0
0
0
0

3,590
3,582
3,574
3,566

5,976
5,965
5,954
5,944

6,746
6,735
6,725
6,714

121
117
114
110

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

24,200
24,250
24,300
24,350

24,250
24,300
24,350
24,400

0
0
0
0

3,079
3,071
3,063
3,055

5,302
5,291
5,281
5,270

6,072
6,062
6,051
6,041

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

21,200
21,250
21,300
21,350

21,250
21,300
21,350
21,400

0
0
0
0

3,558
3,550
3,542
3,534

5,933
5,923
5,912
5,902

6,704
6,693
6,683
6,672

106
102
98
94

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

24,400
24,450
24,500
24,550

24,450
24,500
24,550
24,600

0
0
0
0

3,047
3,039
3,031
3,023

5,259
5,249
5,238
5,228

6,030
6,019
6,009
5,998

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

21,400
21,450
21,500
21,550

21,450
21,500
21,550
21,600

0
0
0
0

3,526
3,518
3,510
3,502

5,891
5,881
5,870
5,860

6,662
6,651
6,641
6,630

91
87
83
79

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

24,600
24,650
24,700
24,750

24,650
24,700
24,750
24,800

0
0
0
0

3,015
3,007
2,999
2,991

5,217
5,207
5,196
5,186

5,988
5,977
5,967
5,956

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

★ Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $22,600 but less than $22,610, and you have no qualifying children who have valid
SSNs, your credit is $0.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $22,610 or more, and you have no qualifying children who have valid SSNs, you can’t take the
credit.

(Continued)

- 49 -

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table - Continued

(Caution. This is not a tax table.)

And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

1

2

3

And your filing status is–

Married filing jointly and you
have–
0

1

But less
than

24,800
24,850
24,900
24,950

24,850
24,900
24,950
25,000

0
0
0
0

2,983
2,975
2,967
2,959

5,175
5,165
5,154
5,144

5,946
5,935
5,925
5,914

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

25,000
25,050
25,100
25,150

25,050
25,100
25,150
25,200

0
0
0
0

2,951
2,943
2,935
2,927

5,133
5,123
5,112
5,102

5,904
5,893
5,883
5,872

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

25,200
25,250
25,300
25,350

25,250
25,300
25,350
25,400

0
0
0
0

2,919
2,911
2,903
2,895

5,091
5,080
5,070
5,059

5,861
5,851
5,840
5,830

0
0
0
0

25,400
25,450
25,500
25,550

25,450
25,500
25,550
25,600

0
0
0
0

2,887
2,879
2,871
2,863

5,049
5,038
5,028
5,017

5,819
5,809
5,798
5,788

25,600
25,650
25,700
25,750

25,650
25,700
25,750
25,800

0
0
0
0

2,855
2,847
2,839
2,831

5,007
4,996
4,986
4,975

25,800
25,850
25,900
25,950

25,850
25,900
25,950
26,000

0
0
0
0

2,823
2,815
2,807
2,799

26,000
26,050
26,100
26,150

26,050
26,100
26,150
26,200

0
0
0
0

26,200
26,250
26,300
26,350

26,250
26,300
26,350
26,400

26,400
26,450
26,500
26,550

★

Your credit is–

2

At least

If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

3

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

Your credit is–

1

2

3

Married filing jointly and you
have–
0

1

Your credit is–

2

3

At least

But less
than

Your credit is–

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

28,000
28,050
28,100
28,150

28,050
28,100
28,150
28,200

0
0
0
0

2,472
2,464
2,456
2,448

4,501
4,491
4,480
4,470

5,272
5,261
5,251
5,240

0
0
0
0

3,451
3,443
3,435
3,427

5,792
5,782
5,771
5,761

6,563
6,552
6,542
6,531

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

28,200
28,250
28,300
28,350

28,250
28,300
28,350
28,400

0
0
0
0

2,440
2,432
2,424
2,416

4,459
4,449
4,438
4,428

5,230
5,219
5,209
5,198

0
0
0
0

3,419
3,411
3,403
3,395

5,750
5,740
5,729
5,719

6,521
6,510
6,500
6,489

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

28,400
28,450
28,500
28,550

28,450
28,500
28,550
28,600

0
0
0
0

2,408
2,400
2,392
2,384

4,417
4,407
4,396
4,385

5,188
5,177
5,167
5,156

0
0
0
0

3,387
3,379
3,371
3,363

5,708
5,698
5,687
5,676

6,479
6,468
6,457
6,447

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

28,600
28,650
28,700
28,750

28,650
28,700
28,750
28,800

0
0
0
0

2,376
2,368
2,360
2,352

4,375
4,364
4,354
4,343

5,145
5,135
5,124
5,114

0
0
0
0

3,355
3,347
3,339
3,331

5,666
5,655
5,645
5,634

6,436
6,426
6,415
6,405

5,777
5,767
5,756
5,746

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

28,800
28,850
28,900
28,950

28,850
28,900
28,950
29,000

0
0
0
0

2,344
2,336
2,328
2,320

4,333
4,322
4,312
4,301

5,103
5,093
5,082
5,072

0
0
0
0

3,323
3,315
3,307
3,299

5,624
5,613
5,603
5,592

6,394
6,384
6,373
6,363

4,965
4,954
4,944
4,933

5,735
5,725
5,714
5,704

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

29,000
29,050
29,100
29,150

29,050
29,100
29,150
29,200

0
0
0
0

2,312
2,304
2,296
2,288

4,291
4,280
4,270
4,259

5,061
5,051
5,040
5,030

0
0
0
0

3,291
3,283
3,275
3,267

5,582
5,571
5,561
5,550

6,352
6,342
6,331
6,321

2,791
2,783
2,775
2,767

4,923
4,912
4,901
4,891

5,693
5,682
5,672
5,661

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,733
3,733

6,164
6,164
6,164
6,164

6,935
6,935
6,935
6,935

29,200
29,250
29,300
29,350

29,250
29,300
29,350
29,400

0
0
0
0

2,280
2,272
2,264
2,256

4,249
4,238
4,228
4,217

5,019
5,009
4,998
4,988

0
0
0
0

3,259
3,251
3,243
3,235

5,540
5,529
5,519
5,508

6,310
6,300
6,289
6,278

0
0
0
0

2,759
2,751
2,743
2,735

4,880
4,870
4,859
4,849

5,651
5,640
5,630
5,619

0
0
0
0

3,733
3,733
3,723
3,715

6,164
6,164
6,150
6,140

6,935
6,935
6,921
6,910

29,400
29,450
29,500
29,550

29,450
29,500
29,550
29,600

0
0
0
0

2,248
2,240
2,232
2,224

4,206
4,196
4,185
4,175

4,977
4,966
4,956
4,945

0
0
0
0

3,227
3,219
3,211
3,203

5,497
5,487
5,476
5,466

6,268
6,257
6,247
6,236

26,450
26,500
26,550
26,600

0
0
0
0

2,727
2,719
2,711
2,703

4,838
4,828
4,817
4,807

5,609
5,598
5,588
5,577

0
0
0
0

3,707
3,699
3,691
3,683

6,129
6,119
6,108
6,098

6,900
6,889
6,879
6,868

29,600
29,650
29,700
29,750

29,650
29,700
29,750
29,800

0
0
0
0

2,216
2,208
2,200
2,192

4,164
4,154
4,143
4,133

4,935
4,924
4,914
4,903

0
0
0
0

3,195
3,187
3,179
3,172

5,455
5,445
5,434
5,424

6,226
6,215
6,205
6,194

26,600
26,650
26,700
26,750

26,650
26,700
26,750
26,800

0
0
0
0

2,695
2,687
2,679
2,671

4,796
4,786
4,775
4,765

5,567
5,556
5,546
5,535

0
0
0
0

3,675
3,667
3,659
3,651

6,087
6,077
6,066
6,056

6,858
6,847
6,837
6,826

29,800
29,850
29,900
29,950

29,850
29,900
29,950
30,000

0
0
0
0

2,184
2,176
2,168
2,160

4,122
4,112
4,101
4,091

4,893
4,882
4,872
4,861

0
0
0
0

3,164
3,156
3,148
3,140

5,413
5,403
5,392
5,382

6,184
6,173
6,163
6,152

26,800
26,850
26,900
26,950

26,850
26,900
26,950
27,000

0
0
0
0

2,663
2,655
2,647
2,639

4,754
4,744
4,733
4,722

5,525
5,514
5,503
5,493

0
0
0
0

3,643
3,635
3,627
3,619

6,045
6,034
6,024
6,013

6,816
6,805
6,794
6,784

30,000
30,050
30,100
30,150

30,050
30,100
30,150
30,200

0
0
0
0

2,152
2,144
2,136
2,128

4,080
4,070
4,059
4,049

4,851
4,840
4,830
4,819

0
0
0
0

3,132
3,124
3,116
3,108

5,371
5,361
5,350
5,340

6,142
6,131
6,121
6,110

27,000
27,050
27,100
27,150

27,050
27,100
27,150
27,200

0
0
0
0

2,631
2,623
2,615
2,607

4,712
4,701
4,691
4,680

5,482
5,472
5,461
5,451

0
0
0
0

3,611
3,603
3,595
3,587

6,003
5,992
5,982
5,971

6,773
6,763
6,752
6,742

30,200
30,250
30,300
30,350

30,250
30,300
30,350
30,400

0
0
0
0

2,120
2,112
2,104
2,096

4,038
4,027
4,017
4,006

4,808
4,798
4,787
4,777

0
0
0
0

3,100
3,092
3,084
3,076

5,329
5,318
5,308
5,297

6,099
6,089
6,078
6,068

27,200
27,250
27,300
27,350

27,250
27,300
27,350
27,400

0
0
0
0

2,599
2,591
2,583
2,575

4,670
4,659
4,649
4,638

5,440
5,430
5,419
5,409

0
0
0
0

3,579
3,571
3,563
3,555

5,961
5,950
5,940
5,929

6,731
6,721
6,710
6,700

30,400
30,450
30,500
30,550

30,450
30,500
30,550
30,600

0
0
0
0

2,088
2,080
2,072
2,064

3,996
3,985
3,975
3,964

4,766
4,756
4,745
4,735

0
0
0
0

3,068
3,060
3,052
3,044

5,287
5,276
5,266
5,255

6,057
6,047
6,036
6,026

27,400
27,450
27,500
27,550

27,450
27,500
27,550
27,600

0
0
0
0

2,567
2,559
2,551
2,543

4,628
4,617
4,607
4,596

5,398
5,388
5,377
5,367

0
0
0
0

3,547
3,539
3,531
3,523

5,919
5,908
5,898
5,887

6,689
6,679
6,668
6,658

30,600
30,650
30,700
30,750

30,650
30,700
30,750
30,800

0
0
0
0

2,056
2,048
2,040
2,032

3,954
3,943
3,933
3,922

4,724
4,714
4,703
4,693

0
0
0
0

3,036
3,028
3,020
3,012

5,245
5,234
5,224
5,213

6,015
6,005
5,994
5,984

27,600
27,650
27,700
27,750

27,650
27,700
27,750
27,800

0
0
0
0

2,535
2,528
2,520
2,512

4,586
4,575
4,564
4,554

5,356
5,346
5,335
5,324

0
0
0
0

3,515
3,507
3,499
3,491

5,877
5,866
5,855
5,845

6,647
6,637
6,626
6,615

30,800
30,850
30,900
30,950

30,850
30,900
30,950
31,000

0
0
0
0

2,024
2,016
2,008
2,000

3,912
3,901
3,891
3,880

4,682
4,672
4,661
4,651

0
0
0
0

3,004
2,996
2,988
2,980

5,203
5,192
5,182
5,171

5,973
5,963
5,952
5,942

27,800
27,850
27,900
27,950

27,850
27,900
27,950
28,000

0
0
0
0

2,504
2,496
2,488
2,480

4,543
4,533
4,522
4,512

5,314
5,303
5,293
5,282

0
0
0
0

3,483
3,475
3,467
3,459

5,834
5,824
5,813
5,803

6,605
6,594
6,584
6,573

31,000
31,050
31,100
31,150

31,050
31,100
31,150
31,200

0
0
0
0

1,992
1,984
1,976
1,968

3,870
3,859
3,848
3,838

4,640
4,629
4,619
4,608

0
0
0
0

2,972
2,964
2,956
2,948

5,160
5,150
5,139
5,129

5,931
5,920
5,910
5,899

Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.

(Continued)

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

- 50 -

Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table - Continued

(Caution. This is not a tax table.)

And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

1

2

3

And your filing status is–

Married filing jointly and you
have–
0

1

But less
than

31,200
31,250
31,300
31,350

31,250
31,300
31,350
31,400

0
0
0
0

1,960
1,952
1,944
1,936

3,827
3,817
3,806
3,796

4,598
4,587
4,577
4,566

0
0
0
0

2,940
2,932
2,924
2,916

5,118
5,108
5,097
5,087

31,400
31,450
31,500
31,550

31,450
31,500
31,550
31,600

0
0
0
0

1,928
1,920
1,912
1,904

3,785
3,775
3,764
3,754

4,556
4,545
4,535
4,524

0
0
0
0

2,908
2,900
2,892
2,884

31,600
31,650
31,700
31,750

31,650
31,700
31,750
31,800

0
0
0
0

1,896
1,888
1,880
1,872

3,743
3,733
3,722
3,712

4,514
4,503
4,493
4,482

0
0
0
0

31,800
31,850
31,900
31,950

31,850
31,900
31,950
32,000

0
0
0
0

1,864
1,856
1,848
1,840

3,701
3,691
3,680
3,669

4,472
4,461
4,450
4,440

32,000
32,050
32,100
32,150

32,050
32,100
32,150
32,200

0
0
0
0

1,832
1,824
1,816
1,808

3,659
3,648
3,638
3,627

32,200
32,250
32,300
32,350

32,250
32,300
32,350
32,400

0
0
0
0

1,800
1,792
1,784
1,776

32,400
32,450
32,500
32,550

32,450
32,500
32,550
32,600

0
0
0
0

32,600
32,650
32,700
32,750

32,650
32,700
32,750
32,800

32,800
32,850
32,900
32,950

★

Your credit is–

2

At least

If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

3

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

Your credit is–

1

2

3

Married filing jointly and you
have–
0

1

Your credit is–

2

3

At least

But less
than

Your credit is–

5,889
5,878
5,868
5,857

34,400
34,450
34,500
34,550

34,450
34,500
34,550
34,600

0
0
0
0

1,449
1,441
1,433
1,425

3,153
3,143
3,132
3,122

3,924
3,913
3,903
3,892

0
0
0
0

2,428
2,420
2,412
2,404

4,444
4,434
4,423
4,413

5,215
5,204
5,194
5,183

5,076
5,066
5,055
5,045

5,847
5,836
5,826
5,815

34,600
34,650
34,700
34,750

34,650
34,700
34,750
34,800

0
0
0
0

1,417
1,409
1,401
1,393

3,111
3,101
3,090
3,080

3,882
3,871
3,861
3,850

0
0
0
0

2,396
2,388
2,380
2,373

4,402
4,392
4,381
4,371

5,173
5,162
5,152
5,141

2,876
2,868
2,860
2,852

5,034
5,024
5,013
5,003

5,805
5,794
5,784
5,773

34,800
34,850
34,900
34,950

34,850
34,900
34,950
35,000

0
0
0
0

1,385
1,377
1,369
1,361

3,069
3,059
3,048
3,038

3,840
3,829
3,819
3,808

0
0
0
0

2,365
2,357
2,349
2,341

4,360
4,350
4,339
4,329

5,131
5,120
5,110
5,099

0
0
0
0

2,844
2,836
2,828
2,820

4,992
4,981
4,971
4,960

5,763
5,752
5,741
5,731

35,000
35,050
35,100
35,150

35,050
35,100
35,150
35,200

0
0
0
0

1,353
1,345
1,337
1,329

3,027
3,017
3,006
2,996

3,798
3,787
3,777
3,766

0
0
0
0

2,333
2,325
2,317
2,309

4,318
4,308
4,297
4,287

5,089
5,078
5,068
5,057

4,429
4,419
4,408
4,398

0
0
0
0

2,812
2,804
2,796
2,788

4,950
4,939
4,929
4,918

5,720
5,710
5,699
5,689

35,200
35,250
35,300
35,350

35,250
35,300
35,350
35,400

0
0
0
0

1,321
1,313
1,305
1,297

2,985
2,974
2,964
2,953

3,755
3,745
3,734
3,724

0
0
0
0

2,301
2,293
2,285
2,277

4,276
4,265
4,255
4,244

5,046
5,036
5,025
5,015

3,617
3,606
3,596
3,585

4,387
4,377
4,366
4,356

0
0
0
0

2,780
2,772
2,764
2,756

4,908
4,897
4,887
4,876

5,678
5,668
5,657
5,647

35,400
35,450
35,500
35,550

35,450
35,500
35,550
35,600

0
0
0
0

1,289
1,281
1,273
1,265

2,943
2,932
2,922
2,911

3,713
3,703
3,692
3,682

0
0
0
0

2,269
2,261
2,253
2,245

4,234
4,223
4,213
4,202

5,004
4,994
4,983
4,973

1,768
1,760
1,752
1,744

3,575
3,564
3,554
3,543

4,345
4,335
4,324
4,314

0
0
0
0

2,748
2,740
2,732
2,724

4,866
4,855
4,845
4,834

5,636
5,626
5,615
5,605

35,600
35,650
35,700
35,750

35,650
35,700
35,750
35,800

0
0
0
0

1,257
1,249
1,241
1,233

2,901
2,890
2,880
2,869

3,671
3,661
3,650
3,640

0
0
0
0

2,237
2,229
2,221
2,213

4,192
4,181
4,171
4,160

4,962
4,952
4,941
4,931

0
0
0
0

1,736
1,729
1,721
1,713

3,533
3,522
3,511
3,501

4,303
4,293
4,282
4,271

0
0
0
0

2,716
2,708
2,700
2,692

4,824
4,813
4,802
4,792

5,594
5,584
5,573
5,562

35,800
35,850
35,900
35,950

35,850
35,900
35,950
36,000

0
0
0
0

1,225
1,217
1,209
1,201

2,859
2,848
2,838
2,827

3,629
3,619
3,608
3,598

0
0
0
0

2,205
2,197
2,189
2,181

4,150
4,139
4,129
4,118

4,920
4,910
4,899
4,889

32,850
32,900
32,950
33,000

0
0
0
0

1,705
1,697
1,689
1,681

3,490
3,480
3,469
3,459

4,261
4,250
4,240
4,229

0
0
0
0

2,684
2,676
2,668
2,660

4,781
4,771
4,760
4,750

5,552
5,541
5,531
5,520

36,000
36,050
36,100
36,150

36,050
36,100
36,150
36,200

0
0
0
0

1,193
1,185
1,177
1,169

2,817
2,806
2,795
2,785

3,587
3,576
3,566
3,555

0
0
0
0

2,173
2,165
2,157
2,149

4,107
4,097
4,086
4,076

4,878
4,867
4,857
4,846

33,000
33,050
33,100
33,150

33,050
33,100
33,150
33,200

0
0
0
0

1,673
1,665
1,657
1,649

3,448
3,438
3,427
3,417

4,219
4,208
4,198
4,187

0
0
0
0

2,652
2,644
2,636
2,628

4,739
4,729
4,718
4,708

5,510
5,499
5,489
5,478

36,200
36,250
36,300
36,350

36,250
36,300
36,350
36,400

0
0
0
0

1,161
1,153
1,145
1,137

2,774
2,764
2,753
2,743

3,545
3,534
3,524
3,513

0
0
0
0

2,141
2,133
2,125
2,117

4,065
4,055
4,044
4,034

4,836
4,825
4,815
4,804

33,200
33,250
33,300
33,350

33,250
33,300
33,350
33,400

0
0
0
0

1,641
1,633
1,625
1,617

3,406
3,396
3,385
3,375

4,177
4,166
4,156
4,145

0
0
0
0

2,620
2,612
2,604
2,596

4,697
4,687
4,676
4,666

5,468
5,457
5,447
5,436

36,400
36,450
36,500
36,550

36,450
36,500
36,550
36,600

0
0
0
0

1,129
1,121
1,113
1,105

2,732
2,722
2,711
2,701

3,503
3,492
3,482
3,471

0
0
0
0

2,109
2,101
2,093
2,085

4,023
4,013
4,002
3,992

4,794
4,783
4,773
4,762

33,400
33,450
33,500
33,550

33,450
33,500
33,550
33,600

0
0
0
0

1,609
1,601
1,593
1,585

3,364
3,354
3,343
3,332

4,135
4,124
4,114
4,103

0
0
0
0

2,588
2,580
2,572
2,564

4,655
4,645
4,634
4,623

5,426
5,415
5,404
5,394

36,600
36,650
36,700
36,750

36,650
36,700
36,750
36,800

0
0
0
0

1,097
1,089
1,081
1,073

2,690
2,680
2,669
2,659

3,461
3,450
3,440
3,429

0
0
0
0

2,077
2,069
2,061
2,053

3,981
3,971
3,960
3,950

4,752
4,741
4,731
4,720

33,600
33,650
33,700
33,750

33,650
33,700
33,750
33,800

0
0
0
0

1,577
1,569
1,561
1,553

3,322
3,311
3,301
3,290

4,092
4,082
4,071
4,061

0
0
0
0

2,556
2,548
2,540
2,532

4,613
4,602
4,592
4,581

5,383
5,373
5,362
5,352

36,800
36,850
36,900
36,950

36,850
36,900
36,950
37,000

0
0
0
0

1,065
1,057
1,049
1,041

2,648
2,638
2,627
2,616

3,419
3,408
3,397
3,387

0
0
0
0

2,045
2,037
2,029
2,021

3,939
3,928
3,918
3,907

4,710
4,699
4,688
4,678

33,800
33,850
33,900
33,950

33,850
33,900
33,950
34,000

0
0
0
0

1,545
1,537
1,529
1,521

3,280
3,269
3,259
3,248

4,050
4,040
4,029
4,019

0
0
0
0

2,524
2,516
2,508
2,500

4,571
4,560
4,550
4,539

5,341
5,331
5,320
5,310

37,000
37,050
37,100
37,150

37,050
37,100
37,150
37,200

0
0
0
0

1,033
1,025
1,017
1,009

2,606
2,595
2,585
2,574

3,376
3,366
3,355
3,345

0
0
0
0

2,013
2,005
1,997
1,989

3,897
3,886
3,876
3,865

4,667
4,657
4,646
4,636

34,000
34,050
34,100
34,150

34,050
34,100
34,150
34,200

0
0
0
0

1,513
1,505
1,497
1,489

3,238
3,227
3,217
3,206

4,008
3,998
3,987
3,977

0
0
0
0

2,492
2,484
2,476
2,468

4,529
4,518
4,508
4,497

5,299
5,289
5,278
5,268

37,200
37,250
37,300
37,350

37,250
37,300
37,350
37,400

0
0
0
0

1,001
993
985
977

2,564
2,553
2,543
2,532

3,334
3,324
3,313
3,303

0
0
0
0

1,981
1,973
1,965
1,957

3,855
3,844
3,834
3,823

4,625
4,615
4,604
4,594

34,200
34,250
34,300
34,350

34,250
34,300
34,350
34,400

0
0
0
0

1,481
1,473
1,465
1,457

3,196
3,185
3,175
3,164

3,966
3,956
3,945
3,935

0
0
0
0

2,460
2,452
2,444
2,436

4,487
4,476
4,466
4,455

5,257
5,247
5,236
5,225

37,400
37,450
37,500
37,550

37,450
37,500
37,550
37,600

0
0
0
0

969
961
953
945

2,522
2,511
2,501
2,490

3,292
3,282
3,271
3,261

0
0
0
0

1,949
1,941
1,933
1,925

3,813
3,802
3,792
3,781

4,583
4,573
4,562
4,552

Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.

(Continued)

- 51 -

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table - Continued

(Caution. This is not a tax table.)

And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

*

1

2

3

And your filing status is–

Married filing jointly and you
have–
0

1

Your credit is–

2

At least

But less
than

37,600
37,650
37,700
37,750

37,650
37,700
37,750
37,800

0
0
0
0

937
930
922
914

2,480
2,469
2,458
2,448

3,250
3,240
3,229
3,218

0
0
0
0

1,917
1,909
1,901
1,893

3,771
3,760
3,749
3,739

37,800
37,850
37,900
37,950

37,850
37,900
37,950
38,000

0
0
0
0

906
898
890
882

2,437
2,427
2,416
2,406

3,208
3,197
3,187
3,176

0
0
0
0

1,885
1,877
1,869
1,861

38,000
38,050
38,100
38,150

38,050
38,100
38,150
38,200

0
0
0
0

874
866
858
850

2,395
2,385
2,374
2,364

3,166
3,155
3,145
3,134

0
0
0
0

38,200
38,250
38,300
38,350

38,250
38,300
38,350
38,400

0
0
0
0

842
834
826
818

2,353
2,343
2,332
2,322

3,124
3,113
3,103
3,092

38,400
38,450
38,500
38,550

38,450
38,500
38,550
38,600

0
0
0
0

810
802
794
786

2,311
2,301
2,290
2,279

38,600
38,650
38,700
38,750

38,650
38,700
38,750
38,800

0
0
0
0

778
770
762
754

38,800
38,850
38,900
38,950

38,850
38,900
38,950
39,000

0
0
0
0

39,000
39,050
39,100
39,150

39,050
39,100
39,150
39,200

39,200
39,250
39,300
39,350

If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

3

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

Your credit is–

1

2

3

Married filing jointly and you
have–
0

1

Your credit is–

2

3

At least

But less
than

Your credit is–

4,541
4,531
4,520
4,509

40,800
40,850
40,900
40,950

40,850
40,900
40,950
41,000

0
0
0
0

426
418
410
402

1,806
1,795
1,785
1,774

2,576
2,566
2,555
2,545

0
0
0
0

1,406
1,398
1,390
1,382

3,097
3,086
3,076
3,065

3,867
3,857
3,846
3,836

3,728
3,718
3,707
3,697

4,499
4,488
4,478
4,467

41,000
41,050
41,100
41,150

41,050
41,100
41,150
41,200

0
0
0
0

394
386
378
370

1,764
1,753
1,742
1,732

2,534
2,523
2,513
2,502

0
0
0
0

1,374
1,366
1,358
1,350

3,054
3,044
3,033
3,023

3,825
3,814
3,804
3,793

1,853
1,845
1,837
1,829

3,686
3,676
3,665
3,655

4,457
4,446
4,436
4,425

41,200
41,250
41,300
41,350

41,250
41,300
41,350
41,400

0
0
0
0

362
354
346
338

1,721
1,711
1,700
1,690

2,492
2,481
2,471
2,460

0
0
0
0

1,342
1,334
1,326
1,318

3,012
3,002
2,991
2,981

3,783
3,772
3,762
3,751

0
0
0
0

1,821
1,813
1,805
1,797

3,644
3,634
3,623
3,613

4,415
4,404
4,394
4,383

41,400
41,450
41,500
41,550

41,450
41,500
41,550
41,600

0
0
0
0

330
322
314
306

1,679
1,669
1,658
1,648

2,450
2,439
2,429
2,418

0
0
0
0

1,310
1,302
1,294
1,286

2,970
2,960
2,949
2,939

3,741
3,730
3,720
3,709

3,082
3,071
3,061
3,050

0
0
0
0

1,789
1,781
1,773
1,765

3,602
3,592
3,581
3,570

4,373
4,362
4,351
4,341

41,600
41,650
41,700
41,750

41,650
41,700
41,750
41,800

0
0
0
0

298
290
282
274

1,637
1,627
1,616
1,606

2,408
2,397
2,387
2,376

0
0
0
0

1,278
1,270
1,262
1,254

2,928
2,918
2,907
2,897

3,699
3,688
3,678
3,667

2,269
2,258
2,248
2,237

3,039
3,029
3,018
3,008

0
0
0
0

1,757
1,749
1,741
1,733

3,560
3,549
3,539
3,528

4,330
4,320
4,309
4,299

41,800
41,850
41,900
41,950

41,850
41,900
41,950
42,000

0
0
0
0

266
258
250
242

1,595
1,585
1,574
1,563

2,366
2,355
2,344
2,334

0
0
0
0

1,246
1,238
1,230
1,222

2,886
2,875
2,865
2,854

3,657
3,646
3,635
3,625

746
738
730
722

2,227
2,216
2,206
2,195

2,997
2,987
2,976
2,966

0
0
0
0

1,725
1,717
1,709
1,701

3,518
3,507
3,497
3,486

4,288
4,278
4,267
4,257

42,000
42,050
42,100
42,150

42,050
42,100
42,150
42,200

0
0
0
0

234
226
218
210

1,553
1,542
1,532
1,521

2,323
2,313
2,302
2,292

0
0
0
0

1,214
1,206
1,198
1,190

2,844
2,833
2,823
2,812

3,614
3,604
3,593
3,583

0
0
0
0

714
706
698
690

2,185
2,174
2,164
2,153

2,955
2,945
2,934
2,924

0
0
0
0

1,693
1,685
1,677
1,669

3,476
3,465
3,455
3,444

4,246
4,236
4,225
4,215

42,200
42,250
42,300
42,350

42,250
42,300
42,350
42,400

0
0
0
0

202
194
186
178

1,511
1,500
1,490
1,479

2,281
2,271
2,260
2,250

0
0
0
0

1,182
1,174
1,166
1,158

2,802
2,791
2,781
2,770

3,572
3,562
3,551
3,541

39,250
39,300
39,350
39,400

0
0
0
0

682
674
666
658

2,143
2,132
2,122
2,111

2,913
2,903
2,892
2,882

0
0
0
0

1,661
1,653
1,645
1,637

3,434
3,423
3,413
3,402

4,204
4,194
4,183
4,172

42,400
42,450
42,500
42,550

42,450
42,500
42,550
42,600

0
0
0
0

170
162
154
146

1,469
1,458
1,448
1,437

2,239
2,229
2,218
2,208

0
0
0
0

1,150
1,142
1,134
1,126

2,760
2,749
2,739
2,728

3,530
3,520
3,509
3,499

39,400
39,450
39,500
39,550

39,450
39,500
39,550
39,600

0
0
0
0

650
642
634
626

2,100
2,090
2,079
2,069

2,871
2,860
2,850
2,839

0
0
0
0

1,629
1,621
1,613
1,605

3,391
3,381
3,370
3,360

4,162
4,151
4,141
4,130

42,600
42,650
42,700
42,750

42,650
42,700
42,750
42,800

0
0
0
0

138
131
123
115

1,427
1,416
1,405
1,395

2,197
2,187
2,176
2,165

0
0
0
0

1,118
1,110
1,102
1,094

2,718
2,707
2,696
2,686

3,488
3,478
3,467
3,456

39,600
39,650
39,700
39,750

39,650
39,700
39,750
39,800

0
0
0
0

618
610
602
594

2,058
2,048
2,037
2,027

2,829
2,818
2,808
2,797

0
0
0
0

1,597
1,589
1,581
1,574

3,349
3,339
3,328
3,318

4,120
4,109
4,099
4,088

42,800
42,850
42,900
42,950

42,850
42,900
42,950
43,000

0
0
0
0

107
99
91
83

1,384
1,374
1,363
1,353

2,155
2,144
2,134
2,123

0
0
0
0

1,086
1,078
1,070
1,062

2,675
2,665
2,654
2,644

3,446
3,435
3,425
3,414

39,800
39,850
39,900
39,950

39,850
39,900
39,950
40,000

0
0
0
0

586
578
570
562

2,016
2,006
1,995
1,985

2,787
2,776
2,766
2,755

0
0
0
0

1,566
1,558
1,550
1,542

3,307
3,297
3,286
3,276

4,078
4,067
4,057
4,046

43,000
43,050
43,100
43,150

43,050
43,100
43,150
43,200

0
0
0
0

75
67
59
51

1,342
1,332
1,321
1,311

2,113
2,102
2,092
2,081

0
0
0
0

1,054
1,046
1,038
1,030

2,633
2,623
2,612
2,602

3,404
3,393
3,383
3,372

40,000
40,050
40,100
40,150

40,050
40,100
40,150
40,200

0
0
0
0

554
546
538
530

1,974
1,964
1,953
1,943

2,745
2,734
2,724
2,713

0
0
0
0

1,534
1,526
1,518
1,510

3,265
3,255
3,244
3,234

4,036
4,025
4,015
4,004

43,200
43,250
43,300
43,350

43,250
43,300
43,350
43,400

0
0
0
0

43
35
27
19

1,300
1,290
1,279
1,269

2,071
2,060
2,050
2,039

0
0
0
0

1,022
1,014
1,006
998

2,591
2,581
2,570
2,560

3,362
3,351
3,341
3,330

40,200
40,250
40,300
40,350

40,250
40,300
40,350
40,400

0
0
0
0

522
514
506
498

1,932
1,921
1,911
1,900

2,702
2,692
2,681
2,671

0
0
0
0

1,502
1,494
1,486
1,478

3,223
3,212
3,202
3,191

3,993
3,983
3,972
3,962

43,400
43,450
43,500
43,550

43,450
43,500
43,550
43,600

0
0
0
0

11
*
0
0

1,258
1,248
1,237
1,226

2,029
2,018
2,008
1,997

0
0
0
0

990
982
974
966

2,549
2,539
2,528
2,517

3,320
3,309
3,298
3,288

40,400
40,450
40,500
40,550

40,450
40,500
40,550
40,600

0
0
0
0

490
482
474
466

1,890
1,879
1,869
1,858

2,660
2,650
2,639
2,629

0
0
0
0

1,470
1,462
1,454
1,446

3,181
3,170
3,160
3,149

3,951
3,941
3,930
3,920

43,600
43,650
43,700
43,750

43,650
43,700
43,750
43,800

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

1,216
1,205
1,195
1,184

1,986
1,976
1,965
1,955

0
0
0
0

958
950
942
934

2,507
2,496
2,486
2,475

3,277
3,267
3,256
3,246

40,600
40,650
40,700
40,750

40,650
40,700
40,750
40,800

0
0
0
0

458
450
442
434

1,848
1,837
1,827
1,816

2,618
2,608
2,597
2,587

0
0
0
0

1,438
1,430
1,422
1,414

3,139
3,128
3,118
3,107

3,909
3,899
3,888
3,878

43,800
43,850
43,900
43,950

43,850
43,900
43,950
44,000

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

1,174
1,163
1,153
1,142

1,944
1,934
1,923
1,913

0
0
0
0

926
918
910
902

2,465
2,454
2,444
2,433

3,235
3,225
3,214
3,204

★ Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $43,450 but less than $43,492, and you have one qualifying child who has a valid SSN,
your credit is $3.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $43,492 or more, and you have one qualifying child who has a valid SSN, you can’t take the
credit.

(Continued)

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

- 52 -

Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table - Continued

(Caution. This is not a tax table.)

And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

*

1

2

3

And your filing status is–

Married filing jointly and you
have–
0

1

Your credit is–

2

At least

But less
than

44,000
44,050
44,100
44,150

44,050
44,100
44,150
44,200

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

1,132
1,121
1,111
1,100

1,902
1,892
1,881
1,871

0
0
0
0

894
886
878
870

2,423
2,412
2,402
2,391

44,200
44,250
44,300
44,350

44,250
44,300
44,350
44,400

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

1,090
1,079
1,069
1,058

1,860
1,850
1,839
1,829

0
0
0
0

862
854
846
838

44,400
44,450
44,500
44,550

44,450
44,500
44,550
44,600

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

1,047
1,037
1,026
1,016

1,818
1,807
1,797
1,786

0
0
0
0

44,600
44,650
44,700
44,750

44,650
44,700
44,750
44,800

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

1,005
995
984
974

1,776
1,765
1,755
1,744

44,800
44,850
44,900
44,950

44,850
44,900
44,950
45,000

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

963
953
942
932

45,000
45,050
45,100
45,150

45,050
45,100
45,150
45,200

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

45,200
45,250
45,300
45,350

45,250
45,300
45,350
45,400

0
0
0
0

45,400
45,450
45,500
45,550

45,450
45,500
45,550
45,600

45,600
45,650
45,700
45,750

If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

3

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

Your credit is–

1

2

3

Married filing jointly and you
have–
0

1

Your credit is–

2

3

At least

But less
than

Your credit is–

3,193
3,183
3,172
3,162

46,800
46,850
46,900
46,950

46,850
46,900
46,950
47,000

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

542
532
521
510

1,313
1,302
1,291
1,281

0
0
0
0

447
439
431
423

1,833
1,822
1,812
1,801

2,604
2,593
2,582
2,572

2,381
2,370
2,360
2,349

3,151
3,141
3,130
3,119

47,000
47,050
47,100
47,150

47,050
47,100
47,150
47,200

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

500
489
479
468

1,270
1,260
1,249
1,239

0
0
0
0

415
407
399
391

1,791
1,780
1,770
1,759

2,561
2,551
2,540
2,530

830
822
814
806

2,338
2,328
2,317
2,307

3,109
3,098
3,088
3,077

47,200
47,250
47,300
47,350

47,250
47,300
47,350
47,400

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

458
447
437
426

1,228
1,218
1,207
1,197

0
0
0
0

383
375
367
359

1,749
1,738
1,728
1,717

2,519
2,509
2,498
2,488

0
0
0
0

798
790
782
775

2,296
2,286
2,275
2,265

3,067
3,056
3,046
3,035

47,400
47,450
47,500
47,550

47,450
47,500
47,550
47,600

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

416
405
395
384

1,186
1,176
1,165
1,155

0
0
0
0

351
343
335
327

1,707
1,696
1,686
1,675

2,477
2,467
2,456
2,446

1,734
1,723
1,713
1,702

0
0
0
0

767
759
751
743

2,254
2,244
2,233
2,223

3,025
3,014
3,004
2,993

47,600
47,650
47,700
47,750

47,650
47,700
47,750
47,800

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

374
363
352
342

1,144
1,134
1,123
1,112

0
0
0
0

319
311
303
295

1,665
1,654
1,643
1,633

2,435
2,425
2,414
2,403

921
911
900
890

1,692
1,681
1,671
1,660

0
0
0
0

735
727
719
711

2,212
2,202
2,191
2,181

2,983
2,972
2,962
2,951

47,800
47,850
47,900
47,950

47,850
47,900
47,950
48,000

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

331
321
310
300

1,102
1,091
1,081
1,070

0
0
0
0

287
279
271
263

1,622
1,612
1,601
1,591

2,393
2,382
2,372
2,361

0
0
0
0

879
868
858
847

1,649
1,639
1,628
1,618

0
0
0
0

703
695
687
679

2,170
2,159
2,149
2,138

2,940
2,930
2,919
2,909

48,000
48,050
48,100
48,150

48,050
48,100
48,150
48,200

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

289
279
268
258

1,060
1,049
1,039
1,028

0
0
0
0

255
247
239
231

1,580
1,570
1,559
1,549

2,351
2,340
2,330
2,319

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

837
826
816
805

1,607
1,597
1,586
1,576

0
0
0
0

671
663
655
647

2,128
2,117
2,107
2,096

2,898
2,888
2,877
2,867

48,200
48,250
48,300
48,350

48,250
48,300
48,350
48,400

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

247
237
226
216

1,018
1,007
997
986

0
0
0
0

223
215
207
199

1,538
1,528
1,517
1,507

2,309
2,298
2,288
2,277

45,650
45,700
45,750
45,800

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

795
784
774
763

1,565
1,555
1,544
1,534

0
0
0
0

639
631
623
615

2,086
2,075
2,065
2,054

2,856
2,846
2,835
2,825

48,400
48,450
48,500
48,550

48,450
48,500
48,550
48,600

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

205
195
184
173

976
965
955
944

0
0
0
0

191
183
175
167

1,496
1,486
1,475
1,464

2,267
2,256
2,245
2,235

45,800
45,850
45,900
45,950

45,850
45,900
45,950
46,000

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

753
742
732
721

1,523
1,513
1,502
1,492

0
0
0
0

607
599
591
583

2,044
2,033
2,023
2,012

2,814
2,804
2,793
2,783

48,600
48,650
48,700
48,750

48,650
48,700
48,750
48,800

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

163
152
142
131

933
923
912
902

0
0
0
0

159
151
143
135

1,454
1,443
1,433
1,422

2,224
2,214
2,203
2,193

46,000
46,050
46,100
46,150

46,050
46,100
46,150
46,200

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

711
700
689
679

1,481
1,470
1,460
1,449

0
0
0
0

575
567
559
551

2,001
1,991
1,980
1,970

2,772
2,761
2,751
2,740

48,800
48,850
48,900
48,950

48,850
48,900
48,950
49,000

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

121
110
100
89

891
881
870
860

0
0
0
0

127
119
111
103

1,412
1,401
1,391
1,380

2,182
2,172
2,161
2,151

46,200
46,250
46,300
46,350

46,250
46,300
46,350
46,400

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

668
658
647
637

1,439
1,428
1,418
1,407

0
0
0
0

543
535
527
519

1,959
1,949
1,938
1,928

2,730
2,719
2,709
2,698

49,000
49,050
49,100
49,150

49,050
49,100
49,150
49,200

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

79
68
58
47

849
839
828
818

0
0
0
0

95
87
79
71

1,370
1,359
1,349
1,338

2,140
2,130
2,119
2,109

46,400
46,450
46,500
46,550

46,450
46,500
46,550
46,600

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

626
616
605
595

1,397
1,386
1,376
1,365

0
0
0
0

511
503
495
487

1,917
1,907
1,896
1,886

2,688
2,677
2,667
2,656

49,200
49,250
49,300
49,350

49,250
49,300
49,350
49,400

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

37
26
16
*

807
797
786
776

0
0
0
0

63
55
47
39

1,328
1,317
1,307
1,296

2,098
2,088
2,077
2,066

46,600
46,650
46,700
46,750

46,650
46,700
46,750
46,800

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

584
574
563
553

1,355
1,344
1,334
1,323

0
0
0
0

479
471
463
455

1,875
1,865
1,854
1,844

2,646
2,635
2,625
2,614

49,400
49,450
49,500
49,550

49,450
49,500
49,550
49,600

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

765
754
744
733

0
0
0
0

31
23
15
7

1,285
1,275
1,264
1,254

2,056
2,045
2,035
2,024

★ Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $49,350 but less than $49,399, and you have two qualifying children who have valid
SSNs, your credit is $5.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $49,399 or more, and you have two qualifying children who have valid SSNs, you can’t take
the credit.

(Continued)

- 53 -

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table - Continued

(Caution. This is not a tax table.)

And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

*

**

1

2

3

And your filing status is–

Married filing jointly and you
have–
0

1

Your credit is–

2

At least

But less
than

49,600
49,650
49,700
49,750

49,650
49,700
49,750
49,800

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

723
712
702
691

0
0
0
0

*
0
0
0

1,243
1,233
1,222
1,212

49,800
49,850
49,900
49,950

49,850
49,900
49,950
50,000

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

681
670
660
649

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

50,000
50,050
50,100
50,150

50,050
50,100
50,150
50,200

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

639
628
618
607

0
0
0
0

50,200
50,250
50,300
50,350

50,250
50,300
50,350
50,400

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

596
586
575
565

50,400
50,450
50,500
50,550

50,450
50,500
50,550
50,600

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

50,600
50,650
50,700
50,750

50,650
50,700
50,750
50,800

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

50,800
50,850
50,900
50,950

50,850
50,900
50,950
51,000

0
0
0
0

51,000
51,050
51,100
51,150

51,050
51,100
51,150
51,200

51,200
51,250
51,300
51,350

If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

3

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

Your credit is–

1

2

Married filing jointly and you
have–

3

0

1

Your credit is–

2

3

At least

But less
than

Your credit is–

2,014
2,003
1,993
1,982

52,000
52,050
52,100
52,150

52,050
52,100
52,150
52,200

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

217
207
196
186

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

738
727
717
706

1,508
1,498
1,487
1,477

1,201
1,191
1,180
1,170

1,972
1,961
1,951
1,940

52,200
52,250
52,300
52,350

52,250
52,300
52,350
52,400

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

175
165
154
144

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

696
685
675
664

1,466
1,456
1,445
1,435

0
0
0
0

1,159
1,149
1,138
1,128

1,930
1,919
1,909
1,898

52,400
52,450
52,500
52,550

52,450
52,500
52,550
52,600

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

133
123
112
102

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

654
643
633
622

1,424
1,414
1,403
1,393

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

1,117
1,106
1,096
1,085

1,887
1,877
1,866
1,856

52,600
52,650
52,700
52,750

52,650
52,700
52,750
52,800

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

91
81
70
59

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

612
601
590
580

1,382
1,372
1,361
1,350

554
544
533
523

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

1,075
1,064
1,054
1,043

1,845
1,835
1,824
1,814

52,800
52,850
52,900
52,950

52,850
52,900
52,950
53,000

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

49
38
28
17

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

569
559
548
538

1,340
1,329
1,319
1,308

0
0
0
0

512
502
491
481

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

1,033
1,022
1,012
1,001

1,803
1,793
1,782
1,772

53,000
53,050
53,100
53,150

53,050
53,100
53,150
53,200

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

7
**
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

527
517
506
496

1,298
1,287
1,277
1,266

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

470
460
449
439

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

991
980
970
959

1,761
1,751
1,740
1,730

53,200
53,250
53,300
53,350

53,250
53,300
53,350
53,400

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

485
475
464
454

1,256
1,245
1,235
1,224

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

428
417
407
396

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

948
938
927
917

1,719
1,708
1,698
1,687

53,400
53,450
53,500
53,550

53,450
53,500
53,550
53,600

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

443
433
422
411

1,214
1,203
1,192
1,182

51,250
51,300
51,350
51,400

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

386
375
365
354

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

906
896
885
875

1,677
1,666
1,656
1,645

53,600
53,650
53,700
53,750

53,650
53,700
53,750
53,800

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

401
390
380
369

1,171
1,161
1,150
1,140

51,400
51,450
51,500
51,550

51,450
51,500
51,550
51,600

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

344
333
323
312

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

864
854
843
833

1,635
1,624
1,614
1,603

53,800
53,850
53,900
53,950

53,850
53,900
53,950
54,000

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

359
348
338
327

1,129
1,119
1,108
1,098

51,600
51,650
51,700
51,750

51,650
51,700
51,750
51,800

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

302
291
281
270

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

822
812
801
791

1,593
1,582
1,572
1,561

54,000
54,050
54,100
54,150

54,050
54,100
54,150
54,200

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

317
306
296
285

1,087
1,077
1,066
1,056

51,800
51,850
51,900
51,950

51,850
51,900
51,950
52,000

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

260
249
238
228

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

780
769
759
748

1,551
1,540
1,529
1,519

54,200
54,250
54,300
54,350

54,250
54,300
54,350
54,400

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

275
264
254
243

1,045
1,035
1,024
1,013

★ Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $49,600 but less than $49,622, and you have one qualifying child who has a valid SSN,
your credit is $2.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $49,622 or more, and you have one qualifying child who has a valid SSN, you can’t take the
credit.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $53,050 but less than $53,057, and you have three qualifying children who have valid
SSNs, your credit is $1.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $53,057 or more, and you have three qualifying children who have valid SSNs, you can’t take
the credit.

(Continued)

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

- 54 -

Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table - Continued

(Caution. This is not a tax table.)

And your filing status is–
If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

*

**

1

2

And your filing status is–

Married filing jointly and you
have–

3

0

1

Your credit is–

2

If the amount you
are looking up from
the worksheet is–

3

At least

But less
than

54,400
54,450
54,500
54,550

54,450
54,500
54,550
54,600

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

232
222
211
201

54,600
54,650
54,700
54,750

54,650
54,700
54,750
54,800

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

54,800
54,850
54,900
54,950

54,850
54,900
54,950
55,000

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

55,000
55,050
55,100
55,150

55,050
55,100
55,150
55,200

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

55,200
55,250
55,300
55,350

55,250
55,300
55,350
55,400

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

55,400
55,450
55,500
55,550

55,450
55,500
55,550
55,600

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

55,600
55,650
55,700
55,750

55,650
55,700
55,750
55,800

0
0
0
0

55,800
55,850
55,900
55,950

55,850
55,900
55,950
56,000

56,000
56,050
56,100
56,150

Single, head of household,
or qualifying surviving
spouse★ and you have–
0

Your credit is–

1

2

Married filing jointly and you
have–

3

0

1

Your credit is–

2

3

At least

But less
than

Your credit is–

1,003
992
982
971

56,800
56,850
56,900
56,950

56,850
56,900
56,950
57,000

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

498
487
476
466

190
180
169
159

961
950
940
929

57,000
57,050
57,100
57,150

57,050
57,100
57,150
57,200

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

455
445
434
424

0
0
0
0

148
138
127
117

919
908
898
887

57,200
57,250
57,300
57,350

57,250
57,300
57,350
57,400

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

413
403
392
382

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

106
96
85
75

877
866
856
845

57,400
57,450
57,500
57,550

57,450
57,500
57,550
57,600

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

371
361
350
340

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

64
53
43
32

834
824
813
803

57,600
57,650
57,700
57,750

57,650
57,700
57,750
57,800

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

329
319
308
297

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

22
11
*
0

792
782
771
761

57,800
57,850
57,900
57,950

57,850
57,900
57,950
58,000

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

287
276
266
255

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

750
740
729
719

58,000
58,050
58,100
58,150

58,050
58,100
58,150
58,200

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

245
234
224
213

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

708
698
687
677

58,200
58,250
58,300
58,350

58,250
58,300
58,350
58,400

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

203
192
182
171

56,050
56,100
56,150
56,200

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

666
655
645
634

58,400
58,450
58,500
58,550

58,450
58,500
58,550
58,600

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

161
150
139
129

56,200
56,250
56,300
56,350

56,250
56,300
56,350
56,400

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

624
613
603
592

58,600
58,650
58,700
58,750

58,650
58,700
58,750
58,800

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

118
108
97
87

56,400
56,450
56,500
56,550

56,450
56,500
56,550
56,600

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

582
571
561
550

58,800
58,850
58,900
58,950

58,850
58,900
58,950
59,000

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

76
66
55
45

56,600
56,650
56,700
56,750

56,650
56,700
56,750
56,800

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

540
529
519
508

59,000
59,050
59,100
59,150

59,050
59,100
59,150
59,187

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

34
24
13
**

★ Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $55,500 but less than $55,529, and you have two qualifying children who have valid
SSNs, your credit is $3.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $55,529 or more, and you have two qualifying children who have valid SSNs, you can’t take
the credit.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $59,150 but less than $59,187, and you have three qualifying children who have valid
SSNs, your credit is $4.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $59,187 or more, and you have three qualifying children who have valid SSNs, you can’t take
the credit.

- 55 -

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Line 28

Line 29

Additional Child Tax Credit

American Opportunity
Credit

See Schedule 8812 (Form 1040) and its
instructions for information on figuring
and claiming any additional child tax
credit that you may qualify to claim. If
you are claiming the additional child tax
credit, complete Schedule 8812 and attach it to your Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Form 8862, who must file. You must
file Form 8862 to claim the additional
child tax credit if your child tax credit
(refundable or nonrefundable depending
on the tax year), additional child tax
credit, or credit for other dependents for
a year after 2015 was denied or reduced
for any reason other than a math or clerical error. Attach a completed Form 8862
to your 2022 return to claim the credit
for 2022. Don't file Form 8862 if you
filed Form 8862 for 2021 and the child
tax credit (refundable or nonrefundable),
additional child tax credit, or credit for
other dependents was allowed for that
year. See Form 8862 and its instructions
for details.
If you take the additional child
tax credit even though you
CAUTION aren't eligible and it is determined that your error is due to reckless
or intentional disregard of the additional child tax credit rules, you won't be allowed to take the child tax credit, the
credit for other dependents, or the additional child tax credit for 2 years even if
you’re otherwise eligible to do so. If you
take the additional child tax credit even
though you aren’t eligible and it is later
determined that you fraudulently took
the credit, you won't be allowed to take
the child tax credit, the credit for other
dependents, or the additional child tax
credit for 10 years. You may also have
to pay penalties.

!

Refunds for returns claiming

Refund Offset

If you meet the requirements to claim an
education credit (see the instructions for
Schedule 3, line 3), enter on line 29 the
amount, if any, from Form 8863, line 8.
You may be able to increase an education credit and reduce your total tax or
increase your tax refund if the student
chooses to include all or part of a Pell
grant or certain other scholarships or fellowships in income. See Pub. 970 and
the Instructions for Form 8863 for more
information.
Form 8862 required. You must file
Form 8862 if your American opportunity credit for a year after 2015 was denied or reduced for any reason other
than a math or clerical error. Attach a
completed Form 8862 to your 2022 return to claim the credit for 2022. Don't
file Form 8862 if you filed Form 8862
for 2021 and the American opportunity
credit was allowed for that year. See
Form 8862 and its instructions for details.
If you take the American opportunity credit even though
CAUTION you aren't eligible and it is determined that your error is due to reckless or intentional disregard of the
American opportunity credit rules, you
won't be allowed to take the credit for 2
years even if you’re otherwise eligible to
do so. If you take the American opportunity credit even though you aren't eligible and it is determined that you fraudulently took the credit, you won't be allowed to take the credit for 10 years.
You may also have to pay penalties.

!

Line 30
Line 30 has been reserved for future use.

TIP the additional child tax credit
can't be issued before mid-February 2023. This delay applies to the entire refund, not just the portion associated with the additional child tax credit.

Refund
Line 34
Amount Overpaid
If line 34 is under $1, we will send a refund only on written request.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

-56-

If you owe past-due federal tax, state income tax, state unemployment compensation debts, child support, spousal support, or certain federal nontax debts,
such as student loans, all or part of the
overpayment on line 34 may be used
(offset) to pay the past-due amount. Offsets for federal taxes are made by the
IRS. All other offsets are made by the
Treasury Department's Bureau of the
Fiscal Service. For federal tax offsets,
you will receive a notice from the IRS.
For all other offsets, you will receive a
notice from the Fiscal Service. To find
out if you may have an offset or if you
have any questions about it, contact the
agency to which you owe the debt.
Deposit Refund into Multiple
Accounts
If you want your refund to be split and
direct deposited into more than one account, file Form 8888. Use Form 8888
to direct deposit your refund (or part of
it) to one or more accounts in your name
at a bank or other financial institution
(such as a mutual fund, brokerage firm,
or credit union) in the United States.
Injured Spouse
If you file a joint return and your spouse
hasn’t paid past-due federal tax, state income tax, state unemployment compensation debts, child support, spousal support, or a federal nontax debt, such as a
student loan, part or all of the overpayment on line 34 may be used (offset) to
pay the past-due amount. But your part
of the overpayment may be refunded to
you if certain conditions apply and you
complete Form 8379. For details see
Form 8379.

Lines 35a Through 35d
Amount Refunded to You
If you want to check the status of your
refund, just use the IRS2Go app or go to
IRS.gov/Refunds. See Refund Information, later. Information about your refund will generally be available within
24 hours after the IRS receives your
e-filed return, or 4 weeks after you mail
your paper return. If you filed Form
8379 with your return, wait 14 weeks

(11 weeks if you filed electronically).
Have your 2022 tax return handy so you
can enter your social security number,
your filing status, and the exact whole
dollar amount of your refund.
Where's My Refund will provide a
personalized refund date as soon as the
IRS processes your tax return and approves your refund.
Effect of refund on benefits. Any refund you receive can't be counted as income when determining if you or anyone else is eligible for benefits or
assistance, or how much you or anyone
else can receive, under any federal program or under any state or local program
financed in whole or in part with federal
funds. These programs include Temporary Assistance for Needy Families
(TANF), Medicaid, Supplemental Security Income (SSI), and Supplemental
Nutrition Assistance Program (formerly
food stamps). In addition, when determining eligibility, the refund can't be
counted as a resource for at least 12
months after you receive it. Check with
your local benefit coordinator to find out
if your refund will affect your benefits.

DIRECT DEPOSIT
Simple. Safe. Secure.

Fast Refunds! Join the eight in 10 taxpayers
who choose direct deposit—a fast, simple, safe,
secure way to have your refund deposited
automatically to your checking or savings
account, including an individual retirement
arrangement (IRA). See the information about
IRAs, later.

If you want us to directly deposit the
amount shown on line 35a to your
checking or savings account, including
an IRA, at a bank or other financial institution (such as a mutual fund, brokerage firm, or credit union) in the United
States:
• Complete lines 35b through 35d (if
you want your refund deposited to only
one account), or
• Check the box on line 35a and attach Form 8888 if you want to split the
direct deposit of your refund into more
than one account or use all or part of
your refund to buy paper series I savings
bonds.
If you don’t want your refund directly deposited to your account, don’t

check the box on line 35a. Draw a line
through the boxes on lines 35b and 35d.
We will send you a check instead.
Account must be in your name. Don’t
request a deposit of your refund to an
account that isn't in your name, such as
your tax return preparer’s account. Although you may owe your tax return
preparer a fee for preparing your return,
don’t have any part of your refund deposited into the preparer's account to pay
the fee.
The number of refunds that can be directly deposited to a single account or
prepaid debit card is limited to three a
year. After this limit is reached, paper
checks will be sent instead. Learn more
at IRS.gov/DepositLimit.
Why Use Direct Deposit?

• You get your refund faster by direct deposit than you do by check.
• Payment is more secure. There is
no check that can get lost or stolen.
• It is more convenient. You don’t
have to make a trip to the bank to deposit your check.
• It saves tax dollars. It costs the
government less to refund by direct deposit.
• It's proven itself. Nearly 98% of
social security and veterans' benefits are
sent electronically using direct deposit.
If you file a joint return and
check the box on line 35a and
CAUTION attach Form 8888 or fill in
lines 35b through 35d, your spouse may
get at least part of the refund.

!

IRA. You can have your refund (or part
of it) directly deposited to a traditional
IRA, Roth IRA, or SEP-IRA, but not a
SIMPLE IRA. You must establish the
IRA at a bank or other financial institution before you request direct deposit.
Make sure your direct deposit will be
accepted. You must also notify the trustee or custodian of your account of the
year to which the deposit is to be applied
(unless the trustee or custodian won't accept a deposit for 2022). If you don’t,
the trustee or custodian can assume the
deposit is for the year during which you
are filing the return. For example, if you
file your 2022 return during 2023 and
don’t notify the trustee or custodian in
advance, the trustee or custodian can assume the deposit to your IRA is for

-57-

2023. If you designate your deposit to be
for 2022, you must verify that the deposit was actually made to the account by
the due date of the return (not counting
extensions). If the deposit isn't made by
that date, the deposit isn't an IRA contribution for 2022. In that case, you must
file an amended 2022 return and reduce
any IRA deduction and any retirement
savings contributions credit you claimed.
You and your spouse, if filing
jointly, each may be able to
CAUTION contribute up to $6,000 ($7,000
if age 50 or older at the end of 2022) to
a traditional IRA or Roth IRA for 2022.
You may owe a penalty if your contributions exceed these limits, and the limits
may be lower depending on your compensation and income. For more information on IRA contributions, see Pub.
590-A.

!

For more information on IRAs, see
Pub. 590-A and Pub. 590-B.
TreasuryDirect®. You can request a
deposit of your refund (or part of it) to a
TreasuryDirect® online account to buy
U.S. Treasury marketable securities, if
available, and savings bonds. For more
information, go to treasurydirect.gov.
Form 8888. You can have your refund
directly deposited into more than one account or use it to buy up to $5,000 in paper series I savings bonds. You don’t
need a TreasuryDirect® account to do
this. For more information, see the Form
8888 instructions.
Your refund can be split and di-

TIP rectly deposited into up to three
different accounts in your name
on Form 8888.
Line 35a
You can't file Form 8888 to split your
refund into more than one account or
buy paper series I savings bonds if Form
8379 is filed with your return.
Line 35b
The routing number must be nine digits.
The first two digits must be 01 through
12 or 21 through 32. On the sample
check shown later, the routing number is
250250025. C. and M. Keys would use
that routing number unless their finan-

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Line 35c
Check the appropriate box for the type
of account. Don’t check more than one
box. If the deposit is to an account such
as an IRA, health savings account, brokerage account, or other similar account,
ask your financial institution whether
you should check the “Checking” or
“Savings” box. You must check the correct box to ensure your deposit is accepted. If your deposit is to a TreasuryDirect® online account, check the “Savings”
box.
Line 35d
The account number can be up to 17
characters (both numbers and letters).
Include hyphens but omit spaces and
special symbols. Enter the number from
left to right and leave any unused boxes
blank. On the sample check shown later,
the account number is 20202086. Don’t
include the check number.
If the direct deposit to your account(s) is different from the amount
you expected, you will receive an explanation in the mail about 2 weeks after
your refund is deposited.
Reasons Your Direct Deposit
Request Will Be Rejected
If any of the following apply, your direct
deposit request will be rejected and a
check will be sent instead.
• You are asking to have a joint refund deposited to an individual account,
and your financial institution(s) won't allow this. The IRS isn't responsible if a
financial institution rejects a direct deposit.

Sample Check—Lines 35b Through 35d

1234

C. KEYS
M. KEYS
123 Pear Lane
Anyplace, MI 00000

PL

E

15-0000/0000

$

M

PAY TO THE
ORDER OF

SA

cial institution instructed them to use a
different routing number for direct deposits.
Ask your financial institution for the
correct routing number to enter on
line 35b if:
• The routing number on a deposit
slip is different from the routing number
on your checks,
• Your deposit is to a savings account that doesn't allow you to write
checks, or
• Your checks state they are payable
through a financial institution different
from the one at which you have your
checking account.

ANYPLACE BANK
Anyplace, MI 00000

Routing
number

Account
number

(line 35b)

(line 35d)

DOLLARS

Do not include
the check number.

For

"’86". 1234

|:250250025|:202020

The routing and account numbers may be in different places on your check.
CAUTION

• The name on your account doesn't
match the name on the refund, and your
financial institution(s) won't allow a refund to be deposited unless the name on
the refund matches the name on the account.
• Three direct deposits of tax refunds already have been made to the
same account or prepaid debit card.
• You haven't given a valid account
number.
• Any numbers or letters on lines
35b through 35d are crossed out or whited out.
The IRS isn't responsible for a
lost refund if you enter the
CAUTION wrong
account information.
Check with your financial institution to
get the correct routing and account
numbers and to make sure your direct
deposit will be accepted.

!

Line 36
Applied to Your 2023
Estimated Tax
Enter on line 36 the amount, if any, of
the overpayment on line 34 you want
applied to your 2023 estimated tax. We
will apply this amount to your account
unless you include a statement requesting us to apply it to your spouse's account. Include your spouse's social security number in the statement.
This election to apply part or
all of the amount overpaid to
CAUTION your 2023 estimated tax can't
be changed later.

!

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

-58-

Amount You Owe
To avoid interest and penalties,

TIP pay your taxes in full by the
due date of your return (not including extensions)—April 18, 2023, for
most taxpayers. You don’t have to pay if
line 37 is under $1.
Include any estimated tax penalty
from line 38 in the amount you enter on
line 37. Don’t include any estimated
payments for 2023 in this payment. Instead, make the estimated payment separately.
Bad check or payment. The penalty
for writing a bad check to the IRS is $25
or 2% of the check, whichever is more.
However, if the amount of the check is
less than $25, the penalty equals the
amount of the check. This also applies to
other forms of payment if the IRS
doesn’t receive the funds. Use Tax Topic
206.

Line 37
Amount You Owe
The IRS offers several payment options.
You can pay online, by phone, mobile
device, cash (maximum $1,000 per day
and per transaction), check, or money
order. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for payment options.
Pay Online
Paying online is convenient and secure
and helps make sure we get your pay-

ments on time. To pay your taxes online
or for more information, go to IRS.gov/
Payments. You can pay using any of the
following methods.
• Your Online Account. You can
now make tax payments through your
online account, including balance payments, estimated tax payments, or other
types. You can also see your payment
history and other tax records there. Go
to IRS.gov/Account.
• IRS Direct Pay. For online transfers directly from your checking or savings account at no cost to you, go to
IRS.gov/Payments.
• Pay by Card. To pay by debit or
credit card, go to IRS.gov/Payments. A
convenience fee is charged by these
service providers.
• Electronic Funds Withdrawal
(EFW) is an integrated e-file/e-pay option offered when filing your federal
taxes electronically using tax return
preparation software, through a tax professional, or the IRS at IRS.gov/
Payments.
• Online Payment Agreement. If
you can’t pay in full by the due date of
your tax return, you can apply for an online monthly installment agreement at
IRS.gov/Payments. Once you complete
the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your
agreement has been approved. A user
fee is charged.
Pay by Phone
Paying by phone is another safe and secure method of paying electronically.
Use one of the following methods: (1)
call one of the debit or credit card service providers, or (2) use the Electronic
Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS).
Debit or credit card. Call one of our
service providers. Each charges a fee
that varies by provider, card type, and
payment amount.
Link2Gov Corporation
888-PAY-1040TM
(888-729-1040)
www.PAY1040.com
WorldPay US, Inc.
844-729-8298
(844-PAY-TAX-8TM)
www.payUSAtax.com

ACI Payments, Inc.
888-UPAY-TAXTM
(888-872-9829)
fed.acipayonline.com
EFTPS. To get more information about
EFTPS or to enroll in EFTPS, visit
EFTPS.gov or call 800-555-4477. To
contact EFTPS using Telecommunications Relay Services (TRS) for people
who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a
speech disability, dial 711 and then provide the TRS assistant the 800-555-4477
number or 800-733-4829. Additional information about EFTPS is also available
in Pub. 966.
Pay by Mobile Device
To pay through your mobile device,
download the IRS2Go app.
Pay by Cash
Cash is an in-person payment option for
individuals provided through retail partners with a maximum of $1,000 per day
per transaction. To make a cash payment, you must first be registered online
at fed.acipayonline.com. Do not send
cash payments through the mail.
Pay by Check or Money Order
Before submitting a payment through
the mail, please consider alternative
methods. One of our safe, quick, and
easy electronic payment options might
be right for you. If you choose to mail a
tax payment, make your check or money
order payable to “United States Treasury” for the full amount due. Don’t send
cash. Don’t attach the payment to your
return. Write “2022 Form 1040” or
“2022 Form 1040-SR” and your name,
address, daytime phone number, and social security number (SSN) on your payment and attach Form 1040-V. For the
most up-to-date information on Form
1040-V, go to IRS.gov/Form1040V. If
you are filing a joint return, enter the
SSN shown first on your tax return.
To help us process your payment, enter the amount on the right side of the
check like this: $ XXX.XX. Don’t use
dashes or lines (for example, don’t enter
“$ XXX–” or “$ XXXxx/100”).
Mail your 2022 tax return, payment,
and Form 1040-V to the address shown
on the form that applies to you.

-59-

Notice to taxpayers presenting
checks. When you provide a check as
payment, you authorize us either to use
information from your check to make a
one-time electronic fund transfer from
your account or to process the payment
as a check transaction. When we use information from your check to make an
electronic fund transfer, funds may be
withdrawn from your account as soon as
the same day we receive your payment,
and you will not receive your check
back from your financial institution.
No checks of $100 million or more
accepted. The IRS can’t accept a single
check (including a cashier’s check) for
amounts of $100,000,000 ($100 million)
or more. If you are sending $100 million
or more by check, you’ll need to spread
the payment over 2 or more checks with
each check made out for an amount less
than $100 million. This limit doesn’t apply to other methods of payment (such
as electronic payments). Please consider
a method of payment other than check if
the amount of the payment is over $100
million.
What if You Can't Pay?
If you can't pay the full amount shown
on line 37 when you file, you can ask
for:
• An installment agreement, or
• An extension of time to pay.
Installment agreement. Under an installment agreement, you can pay all or
part of the tax you owe in monthly installments. However, even if an installment agreement is granted, you will be
charged interest and may be charged a
late payment penalty on the tax not paid
by the due date of your return (not
counting extensions)—April 18, 2023,
for most people. You must also pay a
fee. To limit the interest and penalty
charges, pay as much of the tax as possible when you file. But before requesting
an installment agreement, you should
consider other less costly alternatives,
such as a bank loan or credit card payment.
To ask for an installment agreement,
you can apply online or use Form 9465.
To apply online, go to IRS.gov and click
on Apply for an Online Payment Plan.
Extension of time to pay. If paying the
tax when it is due would cause you an

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

undue hardship, you can ask for an extension of time to pay by filing Form
1127 by the due date of your return (not
counting extensions)—April 18, 2023,
for most people. An extension generally
won't be granted for more than 6
months. You will be charged interest on
the tax not paid by April 15, 2023. You
must pay the tax before the extension
runs out. Penalties and interest will be
imposed until taxes are paid in full. For
the most up-to-date information on
Form 1127, go to IRS.gov/Form1127.

Line 38
Estimated Tax Penalty
You may owe this penalty if:
• Line 37 is at least $1,000 and it is
more than 10% of the tax shown on your
return, or
• You didn't pay enough estimated
tax by any of the due dates. This is true
even if you are due a refund.
For most people, the “tax shown on
your return” is the amount on your 2022
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 24, minus
the total of any amounts shown on lines
27, 28, and 29; Schedule 3, lines 9, 12,
13b, and 13h; and Forms 8828, 4137,
5329 (Parts III through IX only), and
8919. Also subtract from line 24 any:
• Tax on an excess parachute payment,
• Excise tax on insider stock compensation of an expatriated corporation,
• Uncollected social security and
Medicare or RRTA tax on tips or
group-term life insurance, and
• Look-back interest due under section 167(g) or 460(b).
When figuring the amount on line 24,
include household employment taxes
only if line 25d is more than zero or you
would owe the penalty even if you didn't
include those taxes.
Exception. You won't owe the penalty
if your 2021 tax return was for a tax
year of 12 full months and either of the
following applies.
1. You had no tax shown on your
2021 return and you were a U.S. citizen
or resident for all of 2021.
2. The total of lines 25d, 26, and
Schedule 3, line 11, on your 2022 return
is at least 100% of the tax shown on
your 2021 return (110% of that amount
if you aren't a farmer or fisherman, and

your adjusted gross income (AGI)
shown on your 2021 return was more
than $150,000 (more than $75,000 if
married filing separately for 2022)).
Your estimated tax payments for 2022
must have been made on time and for
the required amount.
For most people, the “tax shown on
your 2021 return” is the amount on your
2021 Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 24,
minus the total of any amounts shown
on lines 27a, 28, 29, and 30; Schedule 3,
lines 9, 12, 13b, 13g, and 13h; and
Forms 8828, 4137, 5329 (Parts III
through IX only), 8885, and 8919. Also
subtract from line 24 any:
• Tax on an excess parachute payment,
• Excise tax on insider stock compensation of an expatriated corporation,
• Uncollected social security and
Medicare or RRTA tax on tips or
group-term life insurance, and
• Look-back interest due under section 167(g) or 460(b).
When figuring the amount on line 24,
include household employment taxes
only if line 25d is more than zero or you
would have owed the estimated tax penalty for 2021 even if you didn't include
those taxes.
If the Exception just described
doesn't apply, see the Instructions for
Form 2210 for other situations in which
you may be able to lower your penalty
by filing Form 2210.
Figuring the Penalty
If you choose to figure the penalty yourself, use Form 2210 (or 2210-F for farmers and fishermen).
Enter any penalty on line 38. Add the
penalty to any tax due and enter the total
on line 37.
However, if you have an overpayment on line 34, subtract the penalty
from the amount you would otherwise
enter on line 35a or line 36. Lines 35a,
36, and 38 must equal line 34.
If the penalty is more than the overpayment on line 34, enter -0- on lines
35a and 36. Then, subtract line 34 from
line 38 and enter the result on line 37.
Don’t file Form 2210 with your return unless Form 2210 indicates that you
must do so. Instead, keep it for your records.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

-60-

Because Form 2210 is compli-

TIP cated, you can leave line 38
blank and the IRS will figure
the penalty and send you a bill. We
won't charge you interest on the penalty
if you pay by the date specified on the
bill. If your income varied during the
year, the annualized income installment
method may reduce the amount of your
penalty. But you must file Form 2210
because the IRS can't figure your penalty under this method.

Third Party Designee
If you want to allow your preparer, a
friend, a family member, or any other
person you choose to discuss your 2022
tax return with the IRS, check the “Yes”
box in the “Third Party Designee” area
of your return. Also enter the designee's
name, phone number, and any five digits
the designee chooses as their personal
identification number (PIN).
If you check the “Yes” box, you, and
your spouse if filing a joint return, are
authorizing the IRS to call the designee
to answer any questions that may arise
during the processing of your return.
You are also authorizing the designee to:
• Give the IRS any information that
is missing from your return;
• Call the IRS for information about
the processing of your return or the status of your refund or payment(s);
• Receive copies of notices or transcripts related to your return, upon request; and
• Respond to certain IRS notices
about math errors, offsets, and return
preparation.
You aren't authorizing the designee
to receive any refund check, bind you to
anything (including any additional tax
liability), or otherwise represent you before the IRS. If you want to expand the
designee's authorization, see Pub. 947.
This authorization will automatically
end no later than the due date (not
counting extensions) for filing your
2023 tax return. This is April 15, 2024,
for most people.

Sign Your Return
Form 1040 or 1040-SR isn't considered
a valid return unless you sign it in ac-

cordance with the requirements in these
instructions. If you are filing a joint return, your spouse must also sign. If your
spouse can't sign the return, see Pub.
501. Be sure to date your return and enter your occupation(s). If you have
someone prepare your return, you are
still responsible for the correctness of
the return. If your return is signed by a
representative for you, you must have a
power of attorney attached that specifically authorizes the representative to
sign your return. To do this, you can use
Form 2848. If you are filing a joint return with your spouse who died in 2022,
see Death of a Taxpayer, later.

Court-Appointed
Conservator, Guardian, or
Other Fiduciary
If you are a court-appointed conservator,
guardian, or other fiduciary for a mentally or physically incompetent individual who has to file Form 1040 or
1040-SR, sign your name for the individual and file Form 56.

Child's Return
If your child can't sign their return, either parent can sign the child's name in
the space provided. Then, enter “By
(your signature), parent for minor
child.”

Requirements for a Paper
Return
You must handwrite your signature on
your return if you file it on paper. Digital, electronic, or typed-font signatures
are not valid signatures for Forms 1040
or 1040-SR filed on paper.

Requirements for an
Electronic Return
To file your return electronically, you
must sign the return electronically using
a personal identification number (PIN)
and provide the information described
below. If you are filing online using
software, you must use a Self-Select
PIN. If you are filing electronically using a tax practitioner, you can use a
Self-Select PIN or a Practitioner PIN.
For 2022, if we issued you an identity
protection personal identification number (IP PIN) (as described in more detail
below), all six digits of your IP PIN
must appear in the IP PIN spaces provi-

ded next to the space for your occupation for your electronic signature to be
complete. Failure to include an issued IP
PIN on the electronic return will result
in an invalid signature and a rejected return. If you are filing a joint return and
both taxpayers were issued an IP PIN,
enter both IP PINs in the spaces provided.
Self-Select PIN. The Self-Select PIN
method allows you to create your own
PIN. If you are married filing jointly,
you and your spouse will each need to
create a PIN and enter these PINs as
your electronic signatures.
A PIN is any combination of five digits you choose except five zeros. If you
use a PIN, there is nothing to sign and
nothing to mail—not even your Forms
W-2.
Your electronic return is considered a
validly signed return only when it includes your PIN, last name, date of
birth, IP PIN, if applicable, and your adjusted gross income (AGI) from your
originally filed 2021 federal income tax
return, if applicable. If you're filing
jointly, your electronic return must also
include your spouse's PIN, last name,
date of birth, IP PIN, if applicable, and
AGI, if applicable, in order to be considered validly signed. Don’t use your AGI
from an amended return (Form 1040-X)
or a math error correction made by the
IRS. AGI is the amount shown on your
2021 Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11. If
you don’t have your 2021 income tax return, call the IRS at 800-908-9946 to get
a free transcript of your return or visit
IRS.gov/Transcript. (If you filed electronically last year, you, and your
spouse if filing jointly, may use your
prior year PIN to verify your identity instead of your prior year AGI. The prior
year PIN is the five-digit PIN you used
to electronically sign your 2021 return.)
You can't use the Self-Select
PIN method if you are a
CAUTION first-time filer under age 16 at
the end of 2022.

!

Practitioner PIN. The Practitioner PIN
method allows you to authorize your tax
practitioner to enter or generate your
PIN. Your electronic return is considered a validly signed return only when it
includes your PIN, last name, date of
birth, and IP PIN, if applicable. If you're

-61-

filing jointly, your electronic return must
also include your spouse's PIN, last
name, date of birth, and IP PIN, if applicable in order to be considered validly
signed. The practitioner can provide you
with details.
Form 8453. You must send in a paper
Form 8453 if you have to attach certain
forms or other documents that can't be
electronically filed. See Form 8453.

Identity Protection
PIN
All taxpayers are now eligible

TIP for an Identity Protection Personal Identification Number
(IP PIN). For more information, see
Pub. 5477. To apply for an IP PIN, go to
IRS.gov/IPPIN and use the Get an IP
PIN tool.
For 2022, if you received an IP PIN
from the IRS, enter it in the IP PIN
spaces provided next to the space for
your occupation. You must correctly enter all six numbers of your IP PIN. If
you didn't receive an IP PIN, leave these
spaces blank.
New IP PINs are generated every year. They will generally be
CAUTION sent out by mid-January 2023.
Use this IP PIN on your 2022 return as
well as any prior-year returns you file in
2023.

!

If you are filing a joint return and
both taxpayers receive an IP PIN, enter
both IP PINs in the spaces provided.
If you need more information, go to
IRS.gov/IPPIN. If you received an IP
PIN but misplaced it, call 800-908-4490.

Phone Number and Email
Address
You have the option of entering your
phone number and email address in the
spaces provided. There will be no effect
on the processing of your return if you
choose not to enter this information.
Note that the IRS initiates most contacts
through regular mail delivered by the
United States Postal Service.
You can report a phone scam to the
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration at IRS Impersonation Scam

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

Reporting or the FTC using the FTC
Complaint Assistant at FTC.gov. Add
“IRS Telephone Scam” in the notes.
You can report an unsolicited email
claiming to be from the IRS, or an
IRS-related component like the Electronic Federal Tax Payment System, to
the IRS at phishing@irs.gov.
For more information, go to IRS.gov/
Phishing and IRS.gov/newsroom/howto-know-its-really-the-irs-calling-orknocking-on-your-door.

Paid Preparer Must
Sign Your Return
Generally, anyone you pay to prepare
your return must sign it and include their

Preparer Tax Identification Number
(PTIN) in the space provided. The preparer must give you a copy of the return
for your records. Someone who prepares
your return but doesn't charge you
shouldn’t sign your return.
If your paid preparer is self-employed, then they should check the
“self-employed” checkbox.

Assemble Your
Return
Assemble any schedules and forms behind Form 1040 or 1040-SR in order of
the “Attachment Sequence No.” shown
in the upper-right corner of the schedule
or form. If you have supporting state-

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

-62-

ments, arrange them in the same order as
the schedules or forms they support and
attach them last. File your return, schedules, and other attachments on standard
size paper. Cutting the paper may cause
problems in processing your return.
Don’t attach correspondence or other
items unless required to do so. Attach
Forms W-2 and 2439 to Form 1040 or
1040-SR. If you received a Form W-2c
(a corrected Form W-2), attach your
original Forms W-2 and any Forms
W-2c. Attach Forms W-2G and 1099-R
to Form 1040 or 1040-SR if tax was
withheld.

2022
Tax Table

!

See the instructions for line 16 to see if you must use the
Sample Table
Tax Table below to figure your tax.

CAUTION

Example. A married couple are filing a joint return. Their taxable
income on Form 1040, line 15, is $25,300. First, they find the
$25,300-25,350 taxable income line. Next, they find the column for
married filing jointly and read down the column. The amount shown
where the taxable income line and filing status column meet is
$2,628. This is the tax amount they should enter in the entry space
on Form 1040, line 16.
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
At
least

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—

But
less
than

Single

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

Single

25,200 25,250
25,250 25,300
25,300 25,350
25,350 25,400

2,822
2,828
2,834
2,840

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

At
But
Least Less
Than

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

5
15
25
50
75

0
1
2
4
6

0
1
2
4
6

0
1
2
4
6

0
1
2
4
6

75
100
125
150
175

100
125
150
175
200

9
11
14
16
19

9
11
14
16
19

9
11
14
16
19

9
11
14
16
19

200
225
250
275
300

225
250
275
300
325

21
24
26
29
31

21
24
26
29
31

21
24
26
29
31

21
24
26
29
31

325
350
375
400
425

350
375
400
425
450

34
36
39
41
44

34
36
39
41
44

34
36
39
41
44

34
36
39
41
44

450
475
500
525
550

475
500
525
550
575

46
49
51
54
56

46
49
51
54
56

46
49
51
54
56

46
49
51
54
56

575
600
625
650
675

600
625
650
675
700

59
61
64
66
69

59
61
64
66
69

59
61
64
66
69

59
61
64
66
69

700
725
750
775
800

725
750
775
800
825

71
74
76
79
81

71
74
76
79
81

71
74
76
79
81

71
74
76
79
81

825
850
875
900
925

850
875
900
925
950

84
86
89
91
94

84
86
89
91
94

84
86
89
91
94

84
86
89
91
94

950
975

975
1,000

96
99

96
99

96
99

96
99

Your tax is—
2,616 2,822
2,622 2,828
2,628 2,834
2,634 2,840

2,734
2,740
2,746
2,752

And you are—
Single

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold
Your tax is—

Your tax is—

Your tax is—
0
5
15
25
50

Married Married Head
of a
filing
filing
housejointly* sepahold
rately

2,000

1,000
1,000
1,025
1,050
1,075
1,100

1,025
1,050
1,075
1,100
1,125

101
104
106
109
111

101
104
106
109
111

101
104
106
109
111

101
104
106
109
111

2,000
2,025
2,050
2,075
2,100

2,025
2,050
2,075
2,100
2,125

201
204
206
209
211

201
204
206
209
211

201
204
206
209
211

201
204
206
209
211

1,125
1,150
1,175
1,200
1,225

1,150
1,175
1,200
1,225
1,250

114
116
119
121
124

114
116
119
121
124

114
116
119
121
124

114
116
119
121
124

2,125
2,150
2,175
2,200
2,225

2,150
2,175
2,200
2,225
2,250

214
216
219
221
224

214
216
219
221
224

214
216
219
221
224

214
216
219
221
224

1,250
1,275
1,300
1,325
1,350

1,275
1,300
1,325
1,350
1,375

126
129
131
134
136

126
129
131
134
136

126
129
131
134
136

126
129
131
134
136

2,250
2,275
2,300
2,325
2,350

2,275
2,300
2,325
2,350
2,375

226
229
231
234
236

226
229
231
234
236

226
229
231
234
236

226
229
231
234
236

1,375
1,400
1,425
1,450
1,475

1,400
1,425
1,450
1,475
1,500

139
141
144
146
149

139
141
144
146
149

139
141
144
146
149

139
141
144
146
149

2,375
2,400
2,425
2,450
2,475

2,400
2,425
2,450
2,475
2,500

239
241
244
246
249

239
241
244
246
249

239
241
244
246
249

239
241
244
246
249

1,500
1,525
1,550
1,575
1,600

1,525
1,550
1,575
1,600
1,625

151
154
156
159
161

151
154
156
159
161

151
154
156
159
161

151
154
156
159
161

2,500
2,525
2,550
2,575
2,600

2,525
2,550
2,575
2,600
2,625

251
254
256
259
261

251
254
256
259
261

251
254
256
259
261

251
254
256
259
261

1,625
1,650
1,675
1,700
1,725

1,650
1,675
1,700
1,725
1,750

164
166
169
171
174

164
166
169
171
174

164
166
169
171
174

164
166
169
171
174

2,625
2,650
2,675
2,700
2,725

2,650
2,675
2,700
2,725
2,750

264
266
269
271
274

264
266
269
271
274

264
266
269
271
274

264
266
269
271
274

1,750
1,775
1,800
1,825
1,850

1,775
1,800
1,825
1,850
1,875

176
179
181
184
186

176
179
181
184
186

176
179
181
184
186

176
179
181
184
186

2,750
2,775
2,800
2,825
2,850

2,775
2,800
2,825
2,850
2,875

276
279
281
284
286

276
279
281
284
286

276
279
281
284
286

276
279
281
284
286

1,875
1,900
1,925
1,950
1,975

1,900
1,925
1,950
1,975
2,000

189
191
194
196
199

189
191
194
196
199

189
191
194
196
199

189
191
194
196
199

2,875
2,900
2,925
2,950
2,975

2,900
2,925
2,950
2,975
3,000

289
291
294
296
299

289
291
294
296
299

289
291
294
296
299

289
291
294
296
299

(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.

- 63 -

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

2022 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

3,000

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold
Your tax is—

6,000

9,000

3,000
3,050
3,100
3,150
3,200

3,050
3,100
3,150
3,200
3,250

303
308
313
318
323

303
308
313
318
323

303
308
313
318
323

303
308
313
318
323

6,000
6,050
6,100
6,150
6,200

6,050
6,100
6,150
6,200
6,250

603
608
613
618
623

603
608
613
618
623

603
608
613
618
623

603
608
613
618
623

9,000
9,050
9,100
9,150
9,200

9,050
9,100
9,150
9,200
9,250

903
908
913
918
923

903
908
913
918
923

903
908
913
918
923

903
908
913
918
923

3,250
3,300
3,350
3,400
3,450

3,300
3,350
3,400
3,450
3,500

328
333
338
343
348

328
333
338
343
348

328
333
338
343
348

328
333
338
343
348

6,250
6,300
6,350
6,400
6,450

6,300
6,350
6,400
6,450
6,500

628
633
638
643
648

628
633
638
643
648

628
633
638
643
648

628
633
638
643
648

9,250
9,300
9,350
9,400
9,450

9,300
9,350
9,400
9,450
9,500

928
933
938
943
948

928
933
938
943
948

928
933
938
943
948

928
933
938
943
948

3,500
3,550
3,600
3,650
3,700

3,550
3,600
3,650
3,700
3,750

353
358
363
368
373

353
358
363
368
373

353
358
363
368
373

353
358
363
368
373

6,500
6,550
6,600
6,650
6,700

6,550
6,600
6,650
6,700
6,750

653
658
663
668
673

653
658
663
668
673

653
658
663
668
673

653
658
663
668
673

9,500
9,550
9,600
9,650
9,700

9,550
9,600
9,650
9,700
9,750

953
958
963
968
973

953
958
963
968
973

953
958
963
968
973

953
958
963
968
973

3,750
3,800
3,850
3,900
3,950

3,800
3,850
3,900
3,950
4,000

378
383
388
393
398

378
383
388
393
398

378
383
388
393
398

378
383
388
393
398

6,750
6,800
6,850
6,900
6,950

6,800
6,850
6,900
6,950
7,000

678
683
688
693
698

678
683
688
693
698

678
683
688
693
698

678
683
688
693
698

9,750
9,800
9,850
9,900
9,950

9,800
9,850
9,900
9,950
10,000

978
983
988
993
998

978
983
988
993
998

978
983
988
993
998

978
983
988
993
998

4,000

7,000

10,000

4,000
4,050
4,100
4,150
4,200

4,050
4,100
4,150
4,200
4,250

403
408
413
418
423

403
408
413
418
423

403
408
413
418
423

403
408
413
418
423

7,000
7,050
7,100
7,150
7,200

7,050
7,100
7,150
7,200
7,250

703
708
713
718
723

703
708
713
718
723

703
708
713
718
723

703
708
713
718
723

10,000
10,050
10,100
10,150
10,200

10,050
10,100
10,150
10,200
10,250

1,003
1,008
1,013
1,018
1,023

1,003
1,008
1,013
1,018
1,023

1,003
1,008
1,013
1,018
1,023

1,003
1,008
1,013
1,018
1,023

4,250
4,300
4,350
4,400
4,450

4,300
4,350
4,400
4,450
4,500

428
433
438
443
448

428
433
438
443
448

428
433
438
443
448

428
433
438
443
448

7,250
7,300
7,350
7,400
7,450

7,300
7,350
7,400
7,450
7,500

728
733
738
743
748

728
733
738
743
748

728
733
738
743
748

728
733
738
743
748

10,250
10,300
10,350
10,400
10,450

10,300
10,350
10,400
10,450
10,500

1,028
1,034
1,040
1,046
1,052

1,028
1,033
1,038
1,043
1,048

1,028
1,034
1,040
1,046
1,052

1,028
1,033
1,038
1,043
1,048

4,500
4,550
4,600
4,650
4,700

4,550
4,600
4,650
4,700
4,750

453
458
463
468
473

453
458
463
468
473

453
458
463
468
473

453
458
463
468
473

7,500
7,550
7,600
7,650
7,700

7,550
7,600
7,650
7,700
7,750

753
758
763
768
773

753
758
763
768
773

753
758
763
768
773

753
758
763
768
773

10,500
10,550
10,600
10,650
10,700

10,550
10,600
10,650
10,700
10,750

1,058
1,064
1,070
1,076
1,082

1,053
1,058
1,063
1,068
1,073

1,058
1,064
1,070
1,076
1,082

1,053
1,058
1,063
1,068
1,073

4,750
4,800
4,850
4,900
4,950

4,800
4,850
4,900
4,950
5,000

478
483
488
493
498

478
483
488
493
498

478
483
488
493
498

478
483
488
493
498

7,750
7,800
7,850
7,900
7,950

7,800
7,850
7,900
7,950
8,000

778
783
788
793
798

778
783
788
793
798

778
783
788
793
798

778
783
788
793
798

10,750
10,800
10,850
10,900
10,950

10,800
10,850
10,900
10,950
11,000

1,088
1,094
1,100
1,106
1,112

1,078
1,083
1,088
1,093
1,098

1,088
1,094
1,100
1,106
1,112

1,078
1,083
1,088
1,093
1,098

5,000

8,000

11,000

5,000
5,050
5,100
5,150
5,200

5,050
5,100
5,150
5,200
5,250

503
508
513
518
523

503
508
513
518
523

503
508
513
518
523

503
508
513
518
523

8,000
8,050
8,100
8,150
8,200

8,050
8,100
8,150
8,200
8,250

803
808
813
818
823

803
808
813
818
823

803
808
813
818
823

803
808
813
818
823

11,000
11,050
11,100
11,150
11,200

11,050
11,100
11,150
11,200
11,250

1,118
1,124
1,130
1,136
1,142

1,103
1,108
1,113
1,118
1,123

1,118
1,124
1,130
1,136
1,142

1,103
1,108
1,113
1,118
1,123

5,250
5,300
5,350
5,400
5,450

5,300
5,350
5,400
5,450
5,500

528
533
538
543
548

528
533
538
543
548

528
533
538
543
548

528
533
538
543
548

8,250
8,300
8,350
8,400
8,450

8,300
8,350
8,400
8,450
8,500

828
833
838
843
848

828
833
838
843
848

828
833
838
843
848

828
833
838
843
848

11,250
11,300
11,350
11,400
11,450

11,300
11,350
11,400
11,450
11,500

1,148
1,154
1,160
1,166
1,172

1,128
1,133
1,138
1,143
1,148

1,148
1,154
1,160
1,166
1,172

1,128
1,133
1,138
1,143
1,148

5,500
5,550
5,600
5,650
5,700

5,550
5,600
5,650
5,700
5,750

553
558
563
568
573

553
558
563
568
573

553
558
563
568
573

553
558
563
568
573

8,500
8,550
8,600
8,650
8,700

8,550
8,600
8,650
8,700
8,750

853
858
863
868
873

853
858
863
868
873

853
858
863
868
873

853
858
863
868
873

11,500
11,550
11,600
11,650
11,700

11,550
11,600
11,650
11,700
11,750

1,178
1,184
1,190
1,196
1,202

1,153
1,158
1,163
1,168
1,173

1,178
1,184
1,190
1,196
1,202

1,153
1,158
1,163
1,168
1,173

5,750
5,800
5,850
5,900
5,950

5,800
5,850
5,900
5,950
6,000

578
583
588
593
598

578
583
588
593
598

578
583
588
593
598

578
583
588
593
598

8,750
8,800
8,850
8,900
8,950

8,800
8,850
8,900
8,950
9,000

878
883
888
893
898

878
883
888
893
898

878
883
888
893
898

878
883
888
893
898

11,750
11,800
11,850
11,900
11,950

11,800
11,850
11,900
11,950
12,000

1,208
1,214
1,220
1,226
1,232

1,178
1,183
1,188
1,193
1,198

1,208
1,214
1,220
1,226
1,232

1,178
1,183
1,188
1,193
1,198

(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

- 64 -

2022 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

12,000

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold
Your tax is—

15,000

18,000

12,000
12,050
12,100
12,150
12,200

12,050
12,100
12,150
12,200
12,250

1,238
1,244
1,250
1,256
1,262

1,203
1,208
1,213
1,218
1,223

1,238
1,244
1,250
1,256
1,262

1,203
1,208
1,213
1,218
1,223

15,000
15,050
15,100
15,150
15,200

15,050
15,100
15,150
15,200
15,250

1,598
1,604
1,610
1,616
1,622

1,503
1,508
1,513
1,518
1,523

1,598
1,604
1,610
1,616
1,622

1,510
1,516
1,522
1,528
1,534

18,000
18,050
18,100
18,150
18,200

18,050
18,100
18,150
18,200
18,250

1,958
1,964
1,970
1,976
1,982

1,803
1,808
1,813
1,818
1,823

1,958
1,964
1,970
1,976
1,982

1,870
1,876
1,882
1,888
1,894

12,250
12,300
12,350
12,400
12,450

12,300
12,350
12,400
12,450
12,500

1,268
1,274
1,280
1,286
1,292

1,228
1,233
1,238
1,243
1,248

1,268
1,274
1,280
1,286
1,292

1,228
1,233
1,238
1,243
1,248

15,250
15,300
15,350
15,400
15,450

15,300
15,350
15,400
15,450
15,500

1,628
1,634
1,640
1,646
1,652

1,528
1,533
1,538
1,543
1,548

1,628
1,634
1,640
1,646
1,652

1,540
1,546
1,552
1,558
1,564

18,250
18,300
18,350
18,400
18,450

18,300
18,350
18,400
18,450
18,500

1,988
1,994
2,000
2,006
2,012

1,828
1,833
1,838
1,843
1,848

1,988
1,994
2,000
2,006
2,012

1,900
1,906
1,912
1,918
1,924

12,500
12,550
12,600
12,650
12,700

12,550
12,600
12,650
12,700
12,750

1,298
1,304
1,310
1,316
1,322

1,253
1,258
1,263
1,268
1,273

1,298
1,304
1,310
1,316
1,322

1,253
1,258
1,263
1,268
1,273

15,500
15,550
15,600
15,650
15,700

15,550
15,600
15,650
15,700
15,750

1,658
1,664
1,670
1,676
1,682

1,553
1,558
1,563
1,568
1,573

1,658
1,664
1,670
1,676
1,682

1,570
1,576
1,582
1,588
1,594

18,500
18,550
18,600
18,650
18,700

18,550
18,600
18,650
18,700
18,750

2,018
2,024
2,030
2,036
2,042

1,853
1,858
1,863
1,868
1,873

2,018
2,024
2,030
2,036
2,042

1,930
1,936
1,942
1,948
1,954

12,750
12,800
12,850
12,900
12,950

12,800
12,850
12,900
12,950
13,000

1,328
1,334
1,340
1,346
1,352

1,278
1,283
1,288
1,293
1,298

1,328
1,334
1,340
1,346
1,352

1,278
1,283
1,288
1,293
1,298

15,750
15,800
15,850
15,900
15,950

15,800
15,850
15,900
15,950
16,000

1,688
1,694
1,700
1,706
1,712

1,578
1,583
1,588
1,593
1,598

1,688
1,694
1,700
1,706
1,712

1,600
1,606
1,612
1,618
1,624

18,750
18,800
18,850
18,900
18,950

18,800
18,850
18,900
18,950
19,000

2,048
2,054
2,060
2,066
2,072

1,878
1,883
1,888
1,893
1,898

2,048
2,054
2,060
2,066
2,072

1,960
1,966
1,972
1,978
1,984

13,000

16,000

19,000

13,000
13,050
13,100
13,150
13,200

13,050
13,100
13,150
13,200
13,250

1,358
1,364
1,370
1,376
1,382

1,303
1,308
1,313
1,318
1,323

1,358
1,364
1,370
1,376
1,382

1,303
1,308
1,313
1,318
1,323

16,000
16,050
16,100
16,150
16,200

16,050
16,100
16,150
16,200
16,250

1,718
1,724
1,730
1,736
1,742

1,603
1,608
1,613
1,618
1,623

1,718
1,724
1,730
1,736
1,742

1,630
1,636
1,642
1,648
1,654

19,000
19,050
19,100
19,150
19,200

19,050
19,100
19,150
19,200
19,250

2,078
2,084
2,090
2,096
2,102

1,903
1,908
1,913
1,918
1,923

2,078
2,084
2,090
2,096
2,102

1,990
1,996
2,002
2,008
2,014

13,250
13,300
13,350
13,400
13,450

13,300
13,350
13,400
13,450
13,500

1,388
1,394
1,400
1,406
1,412

1,328
1,333
1,338
1,343
1,348

1,388
1,394
1,400
1,406
1,412

1,328
1,333
1,338
1,343
1,348

16,250
16,300
16,350
16,400
16,450

16,300
16,350
16,400
16,450
16,500

1,748
1,754
1,760
1,766
1,772

1,628
1,633
1,638
1,643
1,648

1,748
1,754
1,760
1,766
1,772

1,660
1,666
1,672
1,678
1,684

19,250
19,300
19,350
19,400
19,450

19,300
19,350
19,400
19,450
19,500

2,108
2,114
2,120
2,126
2,132

1,928
1,933
1,938
1,943
1,948

2,108
2,114
2,120
2,126
2,132

2,020
2,026
2,032
2,038
2,044

13,500
13,550
13,600
13,650
13,700

13,550
13,600
13,650
13,700
13,750

1,418
1,424
1,430
1,436
1,442

1,353
1,358
1,363
1,368
1,373

1,418
1,424
1,430
1,436
1,442

1,353
1,358
1,363
1,368
1,373

16,500
16,550
16,600
16,650
16,700

16,550
16,600
16,650
16,700
16,750

1,778
1,784
1,790
1,796
1,802

1,653
1,658
1,663
1,668
1,673

1,778
1,784
1,790
1,796
1,802

1,690
1,696
1,702
1,708
1,714

19,500
19,550
19,600
19,650
19,700

19,550
19,600
19,650
19,700
19,750

2,138
2,144
2,150
2,156
2,162

1,953
1,958
1,963
1,968
1,973

2,138
2,144
2,150
2,156
2,162

2,050
2,056
2,062
2,068
2,074

13,750
13,800
13,850
13,900
13,950

13,800
13,850
13,900
13,950
14,000

1,448
1,454
1,460
1,466
1,472

1,378
1,383
1,388
1,393
1,398

1,448
1,454
1,460
1,466
1,472

1,378
1,383
1,388
1,393
1,398

16,750
16,800
16,850
16,900
16,950

16,800
16,850
16,900
16,950
17,000

1,808
1,814
1,820
1,826
1,832

1,678
1,683
1,688
1,693
1,698

1,808
1,814
1,820
1,826
1,832

1,720
1,726
1,732
1,738
1,744

19,750
19,800
19,850
19,900
19,950

19,800
19,850
19,900
19,950
20,000

2,168
2,174
2,180
2,186
2,192

1,978
1,983
1,988
1,993
1,998

2,168
2,174
2,180
2,186
2,192

2,080
2,086
2,092
2,098
2,104

14,000

17,000

20,000

14,000
14,050
14,100
14,150
14,200

14,050
14,100
14,150
14,200
14,250

1,478
1,484
1,490
1,496
1,502

1,403
1,408
1,413
1,418
1,423

1,478
1,484
1,490
1,496
1,502

1,403
1,408
1,413
1,418
1,423

17,000
17,050
17,100
17,150
17,200

17,050
17,100
17,150
17,200
17,250

1,838
1,844
1,850
1,856
1,862

1,703
1,708
1,713
1,718
1,723

1,838
1,844
1,850
1,856
1,862

1,750
1,756
1,762
1,768
1,774

20,000
20,050
20,100
20,150
20,200

20,050
20,100
20,150
20,200
20,250

2,198
2,204
2,210
2,216
2,222

2,003
2,008
2,013
2,018
2,023

2,198
2,204
2,210
2,216
2,222

2,110
2,116
2,122
2,128
2,134

14,250
14,300
14,350
14,400
14,450

14,300
14,350
14,400
14,450
14,500

1,508
1,514
1,520
1,526
1,532

1,428
1,433
1,438
1,443
1,448

1,508
1,514
1,520
1,526
1,532

1,428
1,433
1,438
1,443
1,448

17,250
17,300
17,350
17,400
17,450

17,300
17,350
17,400
17,450
17,500

1,868
1,874
1,880
1,886
1,892

1,728
1,733
1,738
1,743
1,748

1,868
1,874
1,880
1,886
1,892

1,780
1,786
1,792
1,798
1,804

20,250
20,300
20,350
20,400
20,450

20,300
20,350
20,400
20,450
20,500

2,228
2,234
2,240
2,246
2,252

2,028
2,033
2,038
2,043
2,048

2,228
2,234
2,240
2,246
2,252

2,140
2,146
2,152
2,158
2,164

14,500
14,550
14,600
14,650
14,700

14,550
14,600
14,650
14,700
14,750

1,538
1,544
1,550
1,556
1,562

1,453
1,458
1,463
1,468
1,473

1,538
1,544
1,550
1,556
1,562

1,453
1,458
1,463
1,468
1,474

17,500
17,550
17,600
17,650
17,700

17,550
17,600
17,650
17,700
17,750

1,898
1,904
1,910
1,916
1,922

1,753
1,758
1,763
1,768
1,773

1,898
1,904
1,910
1,916
1,922

1,810
1,816
1,822
1,828
1,834

20,500
20,550
20,600
20,650
20,700

20,550
20,600
20,650
20,700
20,750

2,258
2,264
2,270
2,276
2,282

2,053
2,058
2,064
2,070
2,076

2,258
2,264
2,270
2,276
2,282

2,170
2,176
2,182
2,188
2,194

14,750
14,800
14,850
14,900
14,950

14,800
14,850
14,900
14,950
15,000

1,568
1,574
1,580
1,586
1,592

1,478
1,483
1,488
1,493
1,498

1,568
1,574
1,580
1,586
1,592

1,480
1,486
1,492
1,498
1,504

17,750
17,800
17,850
17,900
17,950

17,800
17,850
17,900
17,950
18,000

1,928
1,934
1,940
1,946
1,952

1,778
1,783
1,788
1,793
1,798

1,928
1,934
1,940
1,946
1,952

1,840
1,846
1,852
1,858
1,864

20,750
20,800
20,850
20,900
20,950

20,800
20,850
20,900
20,950
21,000

2,288
2,294
2,300
2,306
2,312

2,082
2,088
2,094
2,100
2,106

2,288
2,294
2,300
2,306
2,312

2,200
2,206
2,212
2,218
2,224

(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.

- 65 -

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

2022 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

21,000

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold
Your tax is—

24,000

27,000

21,000
21,050
21,100
21,150
21,200

21,050
21,100
21,150
21,200
21,250

2,318
2,324
2,330
2,336
2,342

2,112
2,118
2,124
2,130
2,136

2,318
2,324
2,330
2,336
2,342

2,230
2,236
2,242
2,248
2,254

24,000
24,050
24,100
24,150
24,200

24,050
24,100
24,150
24,200
24,250

2,678
2,684
2,690
2,696
2,702

2,472
2,478
2,484
2,490
2,496

2,678
2,684
2,690
2,696
2,702

2,590
2,596
2,602
2,608
2,614

27,000
27,050
27,100
27,150
27,200

27,050
27,100
27,150
27,200
27,250

3,038
3,044
3,050
3,056
3,062

2,832
2,838
2,844
2,850
2,856

3,038
3,044
3,050
3,056
3,062

2,950
2,956
2,962
2,968
2,974

21,250
21,300
21,350
21,400
21,450

21,300
21,350
21,400
21,450
21,500

2,348
2,354
2,360
2,366
2,372

2,142
2,148
2,154
2,160
2,166

2,348
2,354
2,360
2,366
2,372

2,260
2,266
2,272
2,278
2,284

24,250
24,300
24,350
24,400
24,450

24,300
24,350
24,400
24,450
24,500

2,708
2,714
2,720
2,726
2,732

2,502
2,508
2,514
2,520
2,526

2,708
2,714
2,720
2,726
2,732

2,620
2,626
2,632
2,638
2,644

27,250
27,300
27,350
27,400
27,450

27,300
27,350
27,400
27,450
27,500

3,068
3,074
3,080
3,086
3,092

2,862
2,868
2,874
2,880
2,886

3,068
3,074
3,080
3,086
3,092

2,980
2,986
2,992
2,998
3,004

21,500
21,550
21,600
21,650
21,700

21,550
21,600
21,650
21,700
21,750

2,378
2,384
2,390
2,396
2,402

2,172
2,178
2,184
2,190
2,196

2,378
2,384
2,390
2,396
2,402

2,290
2,296
2,302
2,308
2,314

24,500
24,550
24,600
24,650
24,700

24,550
24,600
24,650
24,700
24,750

2,738
2,744
2,750
2,756
2,762

2,532
2,538
2,544
2,550
2,556

2,738
2,744
2,750
2,756
2,762

2,650
2,656
2,662
2,668
2,674

27,500
27,550
27,600
27,650
27,700

27,550
27,600
27,650
27,700
27,750

3,098
3,104
3,110
3,116
3,122

2,892
2,898
2,904
2,910
2,916

3,098
3,104
3,110
3,116
3,122

3,010
3,016
3,022
3,028
3,034

21,750
21,800
21,850
21,900
21,950

21,800
21,850
21,900
21,950
22,000

2,408
2,414
2,420
2,426
2,432

2,202
2,208
2,214
2,220
2,226

2,408
2,414
2,420
2,426
2,432

2,320
2,326
2,332
2,338
2,344

24,750
24,800
24,850
24,900
24,950

24,800
24,850
24,900
24,950
25,000

2,768
2,774
2,780
2,786
2,792

2,562
2,568
2,574
2,580
2,586

2,768
2,774
2,780
2,786
2,792

2,680
2,686
2,692
2,698
2,704

27,750
27,800
27,850
27,900
27,950

27,800
27,850
27,900
27,950
28,000

3,128
3,134
3,140
3,146
3,152

2,922
2,928
2,934
2,940
2,946

3,128
3,134
3,140
3,146
3,152

3,040
3,046
3,052
3,058
3,064

22,000

25,000

28,000

22,000
22,050
22,100
22,150
22,200

22,050
22,100
22,150
22,200
22,250

2,438
2,444
2,450
2,456
2,462

2,232
2,238
2,244
2,250
2,256

2,438
2,444
2,450
2,456
2,462

2,350
2,356
2,362
2,368
2,374

25,000
25,050
25,100
25,150
25,200

25,050
25,100
25,150
25,200
25,250

2,798
2,804
2,810
2,816
2,822

2,592
2,598
2,604
2,610
2,616

2,798
2,804
2,810
2,816
2,822

2,710
2,716
2,722
2,728
2,734

28,000
28,050
28,100
28,150
28,200

28,050
28,100
28,150
28,200
28,250

3,158
3,164
3,170
3,176
3,182

2,952
2,958
2,964
2,970
2,976

3,158
3,164
3,170
3,176
3,182

3,070
3,076
3,082
3,088
3,094

22,250
22,300
22,350
22,400
22,450

22,300
22,350
22,400
22,450
22,500

2,468
2,474
2,480
2,486
2,492

2,262
2,268
2,274
2,280
2,286

2,468
2,474
2,480
2,486
2,492

2,380
2,386
2,392
2,398
2,404

25,250
25,300
25,350
25,400
25,450

25,300
25,350
25,400
25,450
25,500

2,828
2,834
2,840
2,846
2,852

2,622
2,628
2,634
2,640
2,646

2,828
2,834
2,840
2,846
2,852

2,740
2,746
2,752
2,758
2,764

28,250
28,300
28,350
28,400
28,450

28,300
28,350
28,400
28,450
28,500

3,188
3,194
3,200
3,206
3,212

2,982
2,988
2,994
3,000
3,006

3,188
3,194
3,200
3,206
3,212

3,100
3,106
3,112
3,118
3,124

22,500
22,550
22,600
22,650
22,700

22,550
22,600
22,650
22,700
22,750

2,498
2,504
2,510
2,516
2,522

2,292
2,298
2,304
2,310
2,316

2,498
2,504
2,510
2,516
2,522

2,410
2,416
2,422
2,428
2,434

25,500
25,550
25,600
25,650
25,700

25,550
25,600
25,650
25,700
25,750

2,858
2,864
2,870
2,876
2,882

2,652
2,658
2,664
2,670
2,676

2,858
2,864
2,870
2,876
2,882

2,770
2,776
2,782
2,788
2,794

28,500
28,550
28,600
28,650
28,700

28,550
28,600
28,650
28,700
28,750

3,218
3,224
3,230
3,236
3,242

3,012
3,018
3,024
3,030
3,036

3,218
3,224
3,230
3,236
3,242

3,130
3,136
3,142
3,148
3,154

22,750
22,800
22,850
22,900
22,950

22,800
22,850
22,900
22,950
23,000

2,528
2,534
2,540
2,546
2,552

2,322
2,328
2,334
2,340
2,346

2,528
2,534
2,540
2,546
2,552

2,440
2,446
2,452
2,458
2,464

25,750
25,800
25,850
25,900
25,950

25,800
25,850
25,900
25,950
26,000

2,888
2,894
2,900
2,906
2,912

2,682
2,688
2,694
2,700
2,706

2,888
2,894
2,900
2,906
2,912

2,800
2,806
2,812
2,818
2,824

28,750
28,800
28,850
28,900
28,950

28,800
28,850
28,900
28,950
29,000

3,248
3,254
3,260
3,266
3,272

3,042
3,048
3,054
3,060
3,066

3,248
3,254
3,260
3,266
3,272

3,160
3,166
3,172
3,178
3,184

23,000

26,000

29,000

23,000
23,050
23,100
23,150
23,200

23,050
23,100
23,150
23,200
23,250

2,558
2,564
2,570
2,576
2,582

2,352
2,358
2,364
2,370
2,376

2,558
2,564
2,570
2,576
2,582

2,470
2,476
2,482
2,488
2,494

26,000
26,050
26,100
26,150
26,200

26,050
26,100
26,150
26,200
26,250

2,918
2,924
2,930
2,936
2,942

2,712
2,718
2,724
2,730
2,736

2,918
2,924
2,930
2,936
2,942

2,830
2,836
2,842
2,848
2,854

29,000
29,050
29,100
29,150
29,200

29,050
29,100
29,150
29,200
29,250

3,278
3,284
3,290
3,296
3,302

3,072
3,078
3,084
3,090
3,096

3,278
3,284
3,290
3,296
3,302

3,190
3,196
3,202
3,208
3,214

23,250
23,300
23,350
23,400
23,450

23,300
23,350
23,400
23,450
23,500

2,588
2,594
2,600
2,606
2,612

2,382
2,388
2,394
2,400
2,406

2,588
2,594
2,600
2,606
2,612

2,500
2,506
2,512
2,518
2,524

26,250
26,300
26,350
26,400
26,450

26,300
26,350
26,400
26,450
26,500

2,948
2,954
2,960
2,966
2,972

2,742
2,748
2,754
2,760
2,766

2,948
2,954
2,960
2,966
2,972

2,860
2,866
2,872
2,878
2,884

29,250
29,300
29,350
29,400
29,450

29,300
29,350
29,400
29,450
29,500

3,308
3,314
3,320
3,326
3,332

3,102
3,108
3,114
3,120
3,126

3,308
3,314
3,320
3,326
3,332

3,220
3,226
3,232
3,238
3,244

23,500
23,550
23,600
23,650
23,700

23,550
23,600
23,650
23,700
23,750

2,618
2,624
2,630
2,636
2,642

2,412
2,418
2,424
2,430
2,436

2,618
2,624
2,630
2,636
2,642

2,530
2,536
2,542
2,548
2,554

26,500
26,550
26,600
26,650
26,700

26,550
26,600
26,650
26,700
26,750

2,978
2,984
2,990
2,996
3,002

2,772
2,778
2,784
2,790
2,796

2,978
2,984
2,990
2,996
3,002

2,890
2,896
2,902
2,908
2,914

29,500
29,550
29,600
29,650
29,700

29,550
29,600
29,650
29,700
29,750

3,338
3,344
3,350
3,356
3,362

3,132
3,138
3,144
3,150
3,156

3,338
3,344
3,350
3,356
3,362

3,250
3,256
3,262
3,268
3,274

23,750
23,800
23,850
23,900
23,950

23,800
23,850
23,900
23,950
24,000

2,648
2,654
2,660
2,666
2,672

2,442
2,448
2,454
2,460
2,466

2,648
2,654
2,660
2,666
2,672

2,560
2,566
2,572
2,578
2,584

26,750
26,800
26,850
26,900
26,950

26,800
26,850
26,900
26,950
27,000

3,008
3,014
3,020
3,026
3,032

2,802
2,808
2,814
2,820
2,826

3,008
3,014
3,020
3,026
3,032

2,920
2,926
2,932
2,938
2,944

29,750
29,800
29,850
29,900
29,950

29,800
29,850
29,900
29,950
30,000

3,368
3,374
3,380
3,386
3,392

3,162
3,168
3,174
3,180
3,186

3,368
3,374
3,380
3,386
3,392

3,280
3,286
3,292
3,298
3,304

(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

- 66 -

2022 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

30,000

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold
Your tax is—

33,000

36,000

30,000
30,050
30,100
30,150
30,200

30,050
30,100
30,150
30,200
30,250

3,398
3,404
3,410
3,416
3,422

3,192
3,198
3,204
3,210
3,216

3,398
3,404
3,410
3,416
3,422

3,310
3,316
3,322
3,328
3,334

33,000
33,050
33,100
33,150
33,200

33,050
33,100
33,150
33,200
33,250

3,758
3,764
3,770
3,776
3,782

3,552
3,558
3,564
3,570
3,576

3,758
3,764
3,770
3,776
3,782

3,670
3,676
3,682
3,688
3,694

36,000
36,050
36,100
36,150
36,200

36,050
36,100
36,150
36,200
36,250

4,118
4,124
4,130
4,136
4,142

3,912
3,918
3,924
3,930
3,936

4,118
4,124
4,130
4,136
4,142

4,030
4,036
4,042
4,048
4,054

30,250
30,300
30,350
30,400
30,450

30,300
30,350
30,400
30,450
30,500

3,428
3,434
3,440
3,446
3,452

3,222
3,228
3,234
3,240
3,246

3,428
3,434
3,440
3,446
3,452

3,340
3,346
3,352
3,358
3,364

33,250
33,300
33,350
33,400
33,450

33,300
33,350
33,400
33,450
33,500

3,788
3,794
3,800
3,806
3,812

3,582
3,588
3,594
3,600
3,606

3,788
3,794
3,800
3,806
3,812

3,700
3,706
3,712
3,718
3,724

36,250
36,300
36,350
36,400
36,450

36,300
36,350
36,400
36,450
36,500

4,148
4,154
4,160
4,166
4,172

3,942
3,948
3,954
3,960
3,966

4,148
4,154
4,160
4,166
4,172

4,060
4,066
4,072
4,078
4,084

30,500
30,550
30,600
30,650
30,700

30,550
30,600
30,650
30,700
30,750

3,458
3,464
3,470
3,476
3,482

3,252
3,258
3,264
3,270
3,276

3,458
3,464
3,470
3,476
3,482

3,370
3,376
3,382
3,388
3,394

33,500
33,550
33,600
33,650
33,700

33,550
33,600
33,650
33,700
33,750

3,818
3,824
3,830
3,836
3,842

3,612
3,618
3,624
3,630
3,636

3,818
3,824
3,830
3,836
3,842

3,730
3,736
3,742
3,748
3,754

36,500
36,550
36,600
36,650
36,700

36,550
36,600
36,650
36,700
36,750

4,178
4,184
4,190
4,196
4,202

3,972
3,978
3,984
3,990
3,996

4,178
4,184
4,190
4,196
4,202

4,090
4,096
4,102
4,108
4,114

30,750
30,800
30,850
30,900
30,950

30,800
30,850
30,900
30,950
31,000

3,488
3,494
3,500
3,506
3,512

3,282
3,288
3,294
3,300
3,306

3,488
3,494
3,500
3,506
3,512

3,400
3,406
3,412
3,418
3,424

33,750
33,800
33,850
33,900
33,950

33,800
33,850
33,900
33,950
34,000

3,848
3,854
3,860
3,866
3,872

3,642
3,648
3,654
3,660
3,666

3,848
3,854
3,860
3,866
3,872

3,760
3,766
3,772
3,778
3,784

36,750
36,800
36,850
36,900
36,950

36,800
36,850
36,900
36,950
37,000

4,208
4,214
4,220
4,226
4,232

4,002
4,008
4,014
4,020
4,026

4,208
4,214
4,220
4,226
4,232

4,120
4,126
4,132
4,138
4,144

31,000

34,000

37,000

31,000
31,050
31,100
31,150
31,200

31,050
31,100
31,150
31,200
31,250

3,518
3,524
3,530
3,536
3,542

3,312
3,318
3,324
3,330
3,336

3,518
3,524
3,530
3,536
3,542

3,430
3,436
3,442
3,448
3,454

34,000
34,050
34,100
34,150
34,200

34,050
34,100
34,150
34,200
34,250

3,878
3,884
3,890
3,896
3,902

3,672
3,678
3,684
3,690
3,696

3,878
3,884
3,890
3,896
3,902

3,790
3,796
3,802
3,808
3,814

37,000
37,050
37,100
37,150
37,200

37,050
37,100
37,150
37,200
37,250

4,238
4,244
4,250
4,256
4,262

4,032
4,038
4,044
4,050
4,056

4,238
4,244
4,250
4,256
4,262

4,150
4,156
4,162
4,168
4,174

31,250
31,300
31,350
31,400
31,450

31,300
31,350
31,400
31,450
31,500

3,548
3,554
3,560
3,566
3,572

3,342
3,348
3,354
3,360
3,366

3,548
3,554
3,560
3,566
3,572

3,460
3,466
3,472
3,478
3,484

34,250
34,300
34,350
34,400
34,450

34,300
34,350
34,400
34,450
34,500

3,908
3,914
3,920
3,926
3,932

3,702
3,708
3,714
3,720
3,726

3,908
3,914
3,920
3,926
3,932

3,820
3,826
3,832
3,838
3,844

37,250
37,300
37,350
37,400
37,450

37,300
37,350
37,400
37,450
37,500

4,268
4,274
4,280
4,286
4,292

4,062
4,068
4,074
4,080
4,086

4,268
4,274
4,280
4,286
4,292

4,180
4,186
4,192
4,198
4,204

31,500
31,550
31,600
31,650
31,700

31,550
31,600
31,650
31,700
31,750

3,578
3,584
3,590
3,596
3,602

3,372
3,378
3,384
3,390
3,396

3,578
3,584
3,590
3,596
3,602

3,490
3,496
3,502
3,508
3,514

34,500
34,550
34,600
34,650
34,700

34,550
34,600
34,650
34,700
34,750

3,938
3,944
3,950
3,956
3,962

3,732
3,738
3,744
3,750
3,756

3,938
3,944
3,950
3,956
3,962

3,850
3,856
3,862
3,868
3,874

37,500
37,550
37,600
37,650
37,700

37,550
37,600
37,650
37,700
37,750

4,298
4,304
4,310
4,316
4,322

4,092
4,098
4,104
4,110
4,116

4,298
4,304
4,310
4,316
4,322

4,210
4,216
4,222
4,228
4,234

31,750
31,800
31,850
31,900
31,950

31,800
31,850
31,900
31,950
32,000

3,608
3,614
3,620
3,626
3,632

3,402
3,408
3,414
3,420
3,426

3,608
3,614
3,620
3,626
3,632

3,520
3,526
3,532
3,538
3,544

34,750
34,800
34,850
34,900
34,950

34,800
34,850
34,900
34,950
35,000

3,968
3,974
3,980
3,986
3,992

3,762
3,768
3,774
3,780
3,786

3,968
3,974
3,980
3,986
3,992

3,880
3,886
3,892
3,898
3,904

37,750
37,800
37,850
37,900
37,950

37,800
37,850
37,900
37,950
38,000

4,328
4,334
4,340
4,346
4,352

4,122
4,128
4,134
4,140
4,146

4,328
4,334
4,340
4,346
4,352

4,240
4,246
4,252
4,258
4,264

32,000

35,000

38,000

32,000
32,050
32,100
32,150
32,200

32,050
32,100
32,150
32,200
32,250

3,638
3,644
3,650
3,656
3,662

3,432
3,438
3,444
3,450
3,456

3,638
3,644
3,650
3,656
3,662

3,550
3,556
3,562
3,568
3,574

35,000
35,050
35,100
35,150
35,200

35,050
35,100
35,150
35,200
35,250

3,998
4,004
4,010
4,016
4,022

3,792
3,798
3,804
3,810
3,816

3,998
4,004
4,010
4,016
4,022

3,910
3,916
3,922
3,928
3,934

38,000
38,050
38,100
38,150
38,200

38,050
38,100
38,150
38,200
38,250

4,358
4,364
4,370
4,376
4,382

4,152
4,158
4,164
4,170
4,176

4,358
4,364
4,370
4,376
4,382

4,270
4,276
4,282
4,288
4,294

32,250
32,300
32,350
32,400
32,450

32,300
32,350
32,400
32,450
32,500

3,668
3,674
3,680
3,686
3,692

3,462
3,468
3,474
3,480
3,486

3,668
3,674
3,680
3,686
3,692

3,580
3,586
3,592
3,598
3,604

35,250
35,300
35,350
35,400
35,450

35,300
35,350
35,400
35,450
35,500

4,028
4,034
4,040
4,046
4,052

3,822
3,828
3,834
3,840
3,846

4,028
4,034
4,040
4,046
4,052

3,940
3,946
3,952
3,958
3,964

38,250
38,300
38,350
38,400
38,450

38,300
38,350
38,400
38,450
38,500

4,388
4,394
4,400
4,406
4,412

4,182
4,188
4,194
4,200
4,206

4,388
4,394
4,400
4,406
4,412

4,300
4,306
4,312
4,318
4,324

32,500
32,550
32,600
32,650
32,700

32,550
32,600
32,650
32,700
32,750

3,698
3,704
3,710
3,716
3,722

3,492
3,498
3,504
3,510
3,516

3,698
3,704
3,710
3,716
3,722

3,610
3,616
3,622
3,628
3,634

35,500
35,550
35,600
35,650
35,700

35,550
35,600
35,650
35,700
35,750

4,058
4,064
4,070
4,076
4,082

3,852
3,858
3,864
3,870
3,876

4,058
4,064
4,070
4,076
4,082

3,970
3,976
3,982
3,988
3,994

38,500
38,550
38,600
38,650
38,700

38,550
38,600
38,650
38,700
38,750

4,418
4,424
4,430
4,436
4,442

4,212
4,218
4,224
4,230
4,236

4,418
4,424
4,430
4,436
4,442

4,330
4,336
4,342
4,348
4,354

32,750
32,800
32,850
32,900
32,950

32,800
32,850
32,900
32,950
33,000

3,728
3,734
3,740
3,746
3,752

3,522
3,528
3,534
3,540
3,546

3,728
3,734
3,740
3,746
3,752

3,640
3,646
3,652
3,658
3,664

35,750
35,800
35,850
35,900
35,950

35,800
35,850
35,900
35,950
36,000

4,088
4,094
4,100
4,106
4,112

3,882
3,888
3,894
3,900
3,906

4,088
4,094
4,100
4,106
4,112

4,000
4,006
4,012
4,018
4,024

38,750
38,800
38,850
38,900
38,950

38,800
38,850
38,900
38,950
39,000

4,448
4,454
4,460
4,466
4,472

4,242
4,248
4,254
4,260
4,266

4,448
4,454
4,460
4,466
4,472

4,360
4,366
4,372
4,378
4,384

(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.

- 67 -

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

2022 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

39,000

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold
Your tax is—

42,000

45,000

39,000
39,050
39,100
39,150
39,200

39,050
39,100
39,150
39,200
39,250

4,478
4,484
4,490
4,496
4,502

4,272
4,278
4,284
4,290
4,296

4,478
4,484
4,490
4,496
4,502

4,390
4,396
4,402
4,408
4,414

42,000
42,050
42,100
42,150
42,200

42,050
42,100
42,150
42,200
42,250

4,863
4,874
4,885
4,896
4,907

4,632
4,638
4,644
4,650
4,656

4,863
4,874
4,885
4,896
4,907

4,750
4,756
4,762
4,768
4,774

45,000
45,050
45,100
45,150
45,200

45,050
45,100
45,150
45,200
45,250

5,523
5,534
5,545
5,556
5,567

4,992
4,998
5,004
5,010
5,016

5,523
5,534
5,545
5,556
5,567

5,110
5,116
5,122
5,128
5,134

39,250
39,300
39,350
39,400
39,450

39,300
39,350
39,400
39,450
39,500

4,508
4,514
4,520
4,526
4,532

4,302
4,308
4,314
4,320
4,326

4,508
4,514
4,520
4,526
4,532

4,420
4,426
4,432
4,438
4,444

42,250
42,300
42,350
42,400
42,450

42,300
42,350
42,400
42,450
42,500

4,918
4,929
4,940
4,951
4,962

4,662
4,668
4,674
4,680
4,686

4,918
4,929
4,940
4,951
4,962

4,780
4,786
4,792
4,798
4,804

45,250
45,300
45,350
45,400
45,450

45,300
45,350
45,400
45,450
45,500

5,578
5,589
5,600
5,611
5,622

5,022
5,028
5,034
5,040
5,046

5,578
5,589
5,600
5,611
5,622

5,140
5,146
5,152
5,158
5,164

39,500
39,550
39,600
39,650
39,700

39,550
39,600
39,650
39,700
39,750

4,538
4,544
4,550
4,556
4,562

4,332
4,338
4,344
4,350
4,356

4,538
4,544
4,550
4,556
4,562

4,450
4,456
4,462
4,468
4,474

42,500
42,550
42,600
42,650
42,700

42,550
42,600
42,650
42,700
42,750

4,973
4,984
4,995
5,006
5,017

4,692
4,698
4,704
4,710
4,716

4,973
4,984
4,995
5,006
5,017

4,810
4,816
4,822
4,828
4,834

45,500
45,550
45,600
45,650
45,700

45,550
45,600
45,650
45,700
45,750

5,633
5,644
5,655
5,666
5,677

5,052
5,058
5,064
5,070
5,076

5,633
5,644
5,655
5,666
5,677

5,170
5,176
5,182
5,188
5,194

39,750
39,800
39,850
39,900
39,950

39,800
39,850
39,900
39,950
40,000

4,568
4,574
4,580
4,586
4,592

4,362
4,368
4,374
4,380
4,386

4,568
4,574
4,580
4,586
4,592

4,480
4,486
4,492
4,498
4,504

42,750
42,800
42,850
42,900
42,950

42,800
42,850
42,900
42,950
43,000

5,028
5,039
5,050
5,061
5,072

4,722
4,728
4,734
4,740
4,746

5,028
5,039
5,050
5,061
5,072

4,840
4,846
4,852
4,858
4,864

45,750
45,800
45,850
45,900
45,950

45,800
45,850
45,900
45,950
46,000

5,688
5,699
5,710
5,721
5,732

5,082
5,088
5,094
5,100
5,106

5,688
5,699
5,710
5,721
5,732

5,200
5,206
5,212
5,218
5,224

40,000

43,000

46,000

40,000
40,050
40,100
40,150
40,200

40,050
40,100
40,150
40,200
40,250

4,598
4,604
4,610
4,616
4,622

4,392
4,398
4,404
4,410
4,416

4,598
4,604
4,610
4,616
4,622

4,510
4,516
4,522
4,528
4,534

43,000
43,050
43,100
43,150
43,200

43,050
43,100
43,150
43,200
43,250

5,083
5,094
5,105
5,116
5,127

4,752
4,758
4,764
4,770
4,776

5,083
5,094
5,105
5,116
5,127

4,870
4,876
4,882
4,888
4,894

46,000
46,050
46,100
46,150
46,200

46,050
46,100
46,150
46,200
46,250

5,743
5,754
5,765
5,776
5,787

5,112
5,118
5,124
5,130
5,136

5,743
5,754
5,765
5,776
5,787

5,230
5,236
5,242
5,248
5,254

40,250
40,300
40,350
40,400
40,450

40,300
40,350
40,400
40,450
40,500

4,628
4,634
4,640
4,646
4,652

4,422
4,428
4,434
4,440
4,446

4,628
4,634
4,640
4,646
4,652

4,540
4,546
4,552
4,558
4,564

43,250
43,300
43,350
43,400
43,450

43,300
43,350
43,400
43,450
43,500

5,138
5,149
5,160
5,171
5,182

4,782
4,788
4,794
4,800
4,806

5,138
5,149
5,160
5,171
5,182

4,900
4,906
4,912
4,918
4,924

46,250
46,300
46,350
46,400
46,450

46,300
46,350
46,400
46,450
46,500

5,798
5,809
5,820
5,831
5,842

5,142
5,148
5,154
5,160
5,166

5,798
5,809
5,820
5,831
5,842

5,260
5,266
5,272
5,278
5,284

40,500
40,550
40,600
40,650
40,700

40,550
40,600
40,650
40,700
40,750

4,658
4,664
4,670
4,676
4,682

4,452
4,458
4,464
4,470
4,476

4,658
4,664
4,670
4,676
4,682

4,570
4,576
4,582
4,588
4,594

43,500
43,550
43,600
43,650
43,700

43,550
43,600
43,650
43,700
43,750

5,193
5,204
5,215
5,226
5,237

4,812
4,818
4,824
4,830
4,836

5,193
5,204
5,215
5,226
5,237

4,930
4,936
4,942
4,948
4,954

46,500
46,550
46,600
46,650
46,700

46,550
46,600
46,650
46,700
46,750

5,853
5,864
5,875
5,886
5,897

5,172
5,178
5,184
5,190
5,196

5,853
5,864
5,875
5,886
5,897

5,290
5,296
5,302
5,308
5,314

40,750
40,800
40,850
40,900
40,950

40,800
40,850
40,900
40,950
41,000

4,688
4,694
4,700
4,706
4,712

4,482
4,488
4,494
4,500
4,506

4,688
4,694
4,700
4,706
4,712

4,600
4,606
4,612
4,618
4,624

43,750
43,800
43,850
43,900
43,950

43,800
43,850
43,900
43,950
44,000

5,248
5,259
5,270
5,281
5,292

4,842
4,848
4,854
4,860
4,866

5,248
5,259
5,270
5,281
5,292

4,960
4,966
4,972
4,978
4,984

46,750
46,800
46,850
46,900
46,950

46,800
46,850
46,900
46,950
47,000

5,908
5,919
5,930
5,941
5,952

5,202
5,208
5,214
5,220
5,226

5,908
5,919
5,930
5,941
5,952

5,320
5,326
5,332
5,338
5,344

41,000

44,000

47,000

41,000
41,050
41,100
41,150
41,200

41,050
41,100
41,150
41,200
41,250

4,718
4,724
4,730
4,736
4,742

4,512
4,518
4,524
4,530
4,536

4,718
4,724
4,730
4,736
4,742

4,630
4,636
4,642
4,648
4,654

44,000
44,050
44,100
44,150
44,200

44,050
44,100
44,150
44,200
44,250

5,303
5,314
5,325
5,336
5,347

4,872
4,878
4,884
4,890
4,896

5,303
5,314
5,325
5,336
5,347

4,990
4,996
5,002
5,008
5,014

47,000
47,050
47,100
47,150
47,200

47,050
47,100
47,150
47,200
47,250

5,963
5,974
5,985
5,996
6,007

5,232
5,238
5,244
5,250
5,256

5,963
5,974
5,985
5,996
6,007

5,350
5,356
5,362
5,368
5,374

41,250
41,300
41,350
41,400
41,450

41,300
41,350
41,400
41,450
41,500

4,748
4,754
4,760
4,766
4,772

4,542
4,548
4,554
4,560
4,566

4,748
4,754
4,760
4,766
4,772

4,660
4,666
4,672
4,678
4,684

44,250
44,300
44,350
44,400
44,450

44,300
44,350
44,400
44,450
44,500

5,358
5,369
5,380
5,391
5,402

4,902
4,908
4,914
4,920
4,926

5,358
5,369
5,380
5,391
5,402

5,020
5,026
5,032
5,038
5,044

47,250
47,300
47,350
47,400
47,450

47,300
47,350
47,400
47,450
47,500

6,018
6,029
6,040
6,051
6,062

5,262
5,268
5,274
5,280
5,286

6,018
6,029
6,040
6,051
6,062

5,380
5,386
5,392
5,398
5,404

41,500
41,550
41,600
41,650
41,700

41,550
41,600
41,650
41,700
41,750

4,778
4,784
4,790
4,796
4,802

4,572
4,578
4,584
4,590
4,596

4,778
4,784
4,790
4,796
4,802

4,690
4,696
4,702
4,708
4,714

44,500
44,550
44,600
44,650
44,700

44,550
44,600
44,650
44,700
44,750

5,413
5,424
5,435
5,446
5,457

4,932
4,938
4,944
4,950
4,956

5,413
5,424
5,435
5,446
5,457

5,050
5,056
5,062
5,068
5,074

47,500
47,550
47,600
47,650
47,700

47,550
47,600
47,650
47,700
47,750

6,073
6,084
6,095
6,106
6,117

5,292
5,298
5,304
5,310
5,316

6,073
6,084
6,095
6,106
6,117

5,410
5,416
5,422
5,428
5,434

41,750
41,800
41,850
41,900
41,950

41,800
41,850
41,900
41,950
42,000

4,808
4,819
4,830
4,841
4,852

4,602
4,608
4,614
4,620
4,626

4,808
4,819
4,830
4,841
4,852

4,720
4,726
4,732
4,738
4,744

44,750
44,800
44,850
44,900
44,950

44,800
44,850
44,900
44,950
45,000

5,468
5,479
5,490
5,501
5,512

4,962
4,968
4,974
4,980
4,986

5,468
5,479
5,490
5,501
5,512

5,080
5,086
5,092
5,098
5,104

47,750
47,800
47,850
47,900
47,950

47,800
47,850
47,900
47,950
48,000

6,128
6,139
6,150
6,161
6,172

5,322
5,328
5,334
5,340
5,346

6,128
6,139
6,150
6,161
6,172

5,440
5,446
5,452
5,458
5,464

(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

- 68 -

2022 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

48,000

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold
Your tax is—

51,000

54,000

48,000
48,050
48,100
48,150
48,200

48,050
48,100
48,150
48,200
48,250

6,183
6,194
6,205
6,216
6,227

5,352
5,358
5,364
5,370
5,376

6,183
6,194
6,205
6,216
6,227

5,470
5,476
5,482
5,488
5,494

51,000
51,050
51,100
51,150
51,200

51,050
51,100
51,150
51,200
51,250

6,843
6,854
6,865
6,876
6,887

5,712
5,718
5,724
5,730
5,736

6,843
6,854
6,865
6,876
6,887

5,830
5,836
5,842
5,848
5,854

54,000
54,050
54,100
54,150
54,200

54,050
54,100
54,150
54,200
54,250

7,503
7,514
7,525
7,536
7,547

6,072
6,078
6,084
6,090
6,096

7,503
7,514
7,525
7,536
7,547

6,190
6,196
6,202
6,208
6,214

48,250
48,300
48,350
48,400
48,450

48,300
48,350
48,400
48,450
48,500

6,238
6,249
6,260
6,271
6,282

5,382
5,388
5,394
5,400
5,406

6,238
6,249
6,260
6,271
6,282

5,500
5,506
5,512
5,518
5,524

51,250
51,300
51,350
51,400
51,450

51,300
51,350
51,400
51,450
51,500

6,898
6,909
6,920
6,931
6,942

5,742
5,748
5,754
5,760
5,766

6,898
6,909
6,920
6,931
6,942

5,860
5,866
5,872
5,878
5,884

54,250
54,300
54,350
54,400
54,450

54,300
54,350
54,400
54,450
54,500

7,558
7,569
7,580
7,591
7,602

6,102
6,108
6,114
6,120
6,126

7,558
7,569
7,580
7,591
7,602

6,220
6,226
6,232
6,238
6,244

48,500
48,550
48,600
48,650
48,700

48,550
48,600
48,650
48,700
48,750

6,293
6,304
6,315
6,326
6,337

5,412
5,418
5,424
5,430
5,436

6,293
6,304
6,315
6,326
6,337

5,530
5,536
5,542
5,548
5,554

51,500
51,550
51,600
51,650
51,700

51,550
51,600
51,650
51,700
51,750

6,953
6,964
6,975
6,986
6,997

5,772
5,778
5,784
5,790
5,796

6,953
6,964
6,975
6,986
6,997

5,890
5,896
5,902
5,908
5,914

54,500
54,550
54,600
54,650
54,700

54,550
54,600
54,650
54,700
54,750

7,613
7,624
7,635
7,646
7,657

6,132
6,138
6,144
6,150
6,156

7,613
7,624
7,635
7,646
7,657

6,250
6,256
6,262
6,268
6,274

48,750
48,800
48,850
48,900
48,950

48,800
48,850
48,900
48,950
49,000

6,348
6,359
6,370
6,381
6,392

5,442
5,448
5,454
5,460
5,466

6,348
6,359
6,370
6,381
6,392

5,560
5,566
5,572
5,578
5,584

51,750
51,800
51,850
51,900
51,950

51,800
51,850
51,900
51,950
52,000

7,008
7,019
7,030
7,041
7,052

5,802
5,808
5,814
5,820
5,826

7,008
7,019
7,030
7,041
7,052

5,920
5,926
5,932
5,938
5,944

54,750
54,800
54,850
54,900
54,950

54,800
54,850
54,900
54,950
55,000

7,668
7,679
7,690
7,701
7,712

6,162
6,168
6,174
6,180
6,186

7,668
7,679
7,690
7,701
7,712

6,280
6,286
6,292
6,298
6,304

49,000

52,000

55,000

49,000
49,050
49,100
49,150
49,200

49,050
49,100
49,150
49,200
49,250

6,403
6,414
6,425
6,436
6,447

5,472
5,478
5,484
5,490
5,496

6,403
6,414
6,425
6,436
6,447

5,590
5,596
5,602
5,608
5,614

52,000
52,050
52,100
52,150
52,200

52,050
52,100
52,150
52,200
52,250

7,063
7,074
7,085
7,096
7,107

5,832
5,838
5,844
5,850
5,856

7,063
7,074
7,085
7,096
7,107

5,950
5,956
5,962
5,968
5,974

55,000
55,050
55,100
55,150
55,200

55,050
55,100
55,150
55,200
55,250

7,723
7,734
7,745
7,756
7,767

6,192
6,198
6,204
6,210
6,216

7,723
7,734
7,745
7,756
7,767

6,310
6,316
6,322
6,328
6,334

49,250
49,300
49,350
49,400
49,450

49,300
49,350
49,400
49,450
49,500

6,458
6,469
6,480
6,491
6,502

5,502
5,508
5,514
5,520
5,526

6,458
6,469
6,480
6,491
6,502

5,620
5,626
5,632
5,638
5,644

52,250
52,300
52,350
52,400
52,450

52,300
52,350
52,400
52,450
52,500

7,118
7,129
7,140
7,151
7,162

5,862
5,868
5,874
5,880
5,886

7,118
7,129
7,140
7,151
7,162

5,980
5,986
5,992
5,998
6,004

55,250
55,300
55,350
55,400
55,450

55,300
55,350
55,400
55,450
55,500

7,778
7,789
7,800
7,811
7,822

6,222
6,228
6,234
6,240
6,246

7,778
7,789
7,800
7,811
7,822

6,340
6,346
6,352
6,358
6,364

49,500
49,550
49,600
49,650
49,700

49,550
49,600
49,650
49,700
49,750

6,513
6,524
6,535
6,546
6,557

5,532
5,538
5,544
5,550
5,556

6,513
6,524
6,535
6,546
6,557

5,650
5,656
5,662
5,668
5,674

52,500
52,550
52,600
52,650
52,700

52,550
52,600
52,650
52,700
52,750

7,173
7,184
7,195
7,206
7,217

5,892
5,898
5,904
5,910
5,916

7,173
7,184
7,195
7,206
7,217

6,010
6,016
6,022
6,028
6,034

55,500
55,550
55,600
55,650
55,700

55,550
55,600
55,650
55,700
55,750

7,833
7,844
7,855
7,866
7,877

6,252
6,258
6,264
6,270
6,276

7,833
7,844
7,855
7,866
7,877

6,370
6,376
6,382
6,388
6,394

49,750
49,800
49,850
49,900
49,950

49,800
49,850
49,900
49,950
50,000

6,568
6,579
6,590
6,601
6,612

5,562
5,568
5,574
5,580
5,586

6,568
6,579
6,590
6,601
6,612

5,680
5,686
5,692
5,698
5,704

52,750
52,800
52,850
52,900
52,950

52,800
52,850
52,900
52,950
53,000

7,228
7,239
7,250
7,261
7,272

5,922
5,928
5,934
5,940
5,946

7,228
7,239
7,250
7,261
7,272

6,040
6,046
6,052
6,058
6,064

55,750
55,800
55,850
55,900
55,950

55,800
55,850
55,900
55,950
56,000

7,888
7,899
7,910
7,921
7,932

6,282
6,288
6,294
6,300
6,306

7,888
7,899
7,910
7,921
7,932

6,400
6,406
6,412
6,421
6,432

50,000

53,000

56,000

50,000
50,050
50,100
50,150
50,200

50,050
50,100
50,150
50,200
50,250

6,623
6,634
6,645
6,656
6,667

5,592
5,598
5,604
5,610
5,616

6,623
6,634
6,645
6,656
6,667

5,710
5,716
5,722
5,728
5,734

53,000
53,050
53,100
53,150
53,200

53,050
53,100
53,150
53,200
53,250

7,283
7,294
7,305
7,316
7,327

5,952
5,958
5,964
5,970
5,976

7,283
7,294
7,305
7,316
7,327

6,070
6,076
6,082
6,088
6,094

56,000
56,050
56,100
56,150
56,200

56,050
56,100
56,150
56,200
56,250

7,943
7,954
7,965
7,976
7,987

6,312
6,318
6,324
6,330
6,336

7,943
7,954
7,965
7,976
7,987

6,443
6,454
6,465
6,476
6,487

50,250
50,300
50,350
50,400
50,450

50,300
50,350
50,400
50,450
50,500

6,678
6,689
6,700
6,711
6,722

5,622
5,628
5,634
5,640
5,646

6,678
6,689
6,700
6,711
6,722

5,740
5,746
5,752
5,758
5,764

53,250
53,300
53,350
53,400
53,450

53,300
53,350
53,400
53,450
53,500

7,338
7,349
7,360
7,371
7,382

5,982
5,988
5,994
6,000
6,006

7,338
7,349
7,360
7,371
7,382

6,100
6,106
6,112
6,118
6,124

56,250
56,300
56,350
56,400
56,450

56,300
56,350
56,400
56,450
56,500

7,998
8,009
8,020
8,031
8,042

6,342
6,348
6,354
6,360
6,366

7,998
8,009
8,020
8,031
8,042

6,498
6,509
6,520
6,531
6,542

50,500
50,550
50,600
50,650
50,700

50,550
50,600
50,650
50,700
50,750

6,733
6,744
6,755
6,766
6,777

5,652
5,658
5,664
5,670
5,676

6,733
6,744
6,755
6,766
6,777

5,770
5,776
5,782
5,788
5,794

53,500
53,550
53,600
53,650
53,700

53,550
53,600
53,650
53,700
53,750

7,393
7,404
7,415
7,426
7,437

6,012
6,018
6,024
6,030
6,036

7,393
7,404
7,415
7,426
7,437

6,130
6,136
6,142
6,148
6,154

56,500
56,550
56,600
56,650
56,700

56,550
56,600
56,650
56,700
56,750

8,053
8,064
8,075
8,086
8,097

6,372
6,378
6,384
6,390
6,396

8,053
8,064
8,075
8,086
8,097

6,553
6,564
6,575
6,586
6,597

50,750
50,800
50,850
50,900
50,950

50,800
50,850
50,900
50,950
51,000

6,788
6,799
6,810
6,821
6,832

5,682
5,688
5,694
5,700
5,706

6,788
6,799
6,810
6,821
6,832

5,800
5,806
5,812
5,818
5,824

53,750
53,800
53,850
53,900
53,950

53,800
53,850
53,900
53,950
54,000

7,448
7,459
7,470
7,481
7,492

6,042
6,048
6,054
6,060
6,066

7,448
7,459
7,470
7,481
7,492

6,160
6,166
6,172
6,178
6,184

56,750
56,800
56,850
56,900
56,950

56,800
56,850
56,900
56,950
57,000

8,108
8,119
8,130
8,141
8,152

6,402
6,408
6,414
6,420
6,426

8,108
8,119
8,130
8,141
8,152

6,608
6,619
6,630
6,641
6,652

(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.

- 69 -

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

2022 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

57,000

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold
Your tax is—

60,000

63,000

57,000
57,050
57,100
57,150
57,200

57,050
57,100
57,150
57,200
57,250

8,163
8,174
8,185
8,196
8,207

6,432
6,438
6,444
6,450
6,456

8,163
8,174
8,185
8,196
8,207

6,663
6,674
6,685
6,696
6,707

60,000
60,050
60,100
60,150
60,200

60,050
60,100
60,150
60,200
60,250

8,823
8,834
8,845
8,856
8,867

6,792
6,798
6,804
6,810
6,816

8,823
8,834
8,845
8,856
8,867

7,323
7,334
7,345
7,356
7,367

63,000
63,050
63,100
63,150
63,200

63,050
63,100
63,150
63,200
63,250

9,483
9,494
9,505
9,516
9,527

7,152
7,158
7,164
7,170
7,176

9,483
9,494
9,505
9,516
9,527

7,983
7,994
8,005
8,016
8,027

57,250
57,300
57,350
57,400
57,450

57,300
57,350
57,400
57,450
57,500

8,218
8,229
8,240
8,251
8,262

6,462
6,468
6,474
6,480
6,486

8,218
8,229
8,240
8,251
8,262

6,718
6,729
6,740
6,751
6,762

60,250
60,300
60,350
60,400
60,450

60,300
60,350
60,400
60,450
60,500

8,878
8,889
8,900
8,911
8,922

6,822
6,828
6,834
6,840
6,846

8,878
8,889
8,900
8,911
8,922

7,378
7,389
7,400
7,411
7,422

63,250
63,300
63,350
63,400
63,450

63,300
63,350
63,400
63,450
63,500

9,538
9,549
9,560
9,571
9,582

7,182
7,188
7,194
7,200
7,206

9,538
9,549
9,560
9,571
9,582

8,038
8,049
8,060
8,071
8,082

57,500
57,550
57,600
57,650
57,700

57,550
57,600
57,650
57,700
57,750

8,273
8,284
8,295
8,306
8,317

6,492
6,498
6,504
6,510
6,516

8,273
8,284
8,295
8,306
8,317

6,773
6,784
6,795
6,806
6,817

60,500
60,550
60,600
60,650
60,700

60,550
60,600
60,650
60,700
60,750

8,933
8,944
8,955
8,966
8,977

6,852
6,858
6,864
6,870
6,876

8,933
8,944
8,955
8,966
8,977

7,433
7,444
7,455
7,466
7,477

63,500
63,550
63,600
63,650
63,700

63,550
63,600
63,650
63,700
63,750

9,593
9,604
9,615
9,626
9,637

7,212
7,218
7,224
7,230
7,236

9,593
9,604
9,615
9,626
9,637

8,093
8,104
8,115
8,126
8,137

57,750
57,800
57,850
57,900
57,950

57,800
57,850
57,900
57,950
58,000

8,328
8,339
8,350
8,361
8,372

6,522
6,528
6,534
6,540
6,546

8,328
8,339
8,350
8,361
8,372

6,828
6,839
6,850
6,861
6,872

60,750
60,800
60,850
60,900
60,950

60,800
60,850
60,900
60,950
61,000

8,988
8,999
9,010
9,021
9,032

6,882
6,888
6,894
6,900
6,906

8,988
8,999
9,010
9,021
9,032

7,488
7,499
7,510
7,521
7,532

63,750
63,800
63,850
63,900
63,950

63,800
63,850
63,900
63,950
64,000

9,648
9,659
9,670
9,681
9,692

7,242
7,248
7,254
7,260
7,266

9,648
9,659
9,670
9,681
9,692

8,148
8,159
8,170
8,181
8,192

58,000

61,000

64,000

58,000
58,050
58,100
58,150
58,200

58,050
58,100
58,150
58,200
58,250

8,383
8,394
8,405
8,416
8,427

6,552
6,558
6,564
6,570
6,576

8,383
8,394
8,405
8,416
8,427

6,883
6,894
6,905
6,916
6,927

61,000
61,050
61,100
61,150
61,200

61,050
61,100
61,150
61,200
61,250

9,043
9,054
9,065
9,076
9,087

6,912
6,918
6,924
6,930
6,936

9,043
9,054
9,065
9,076
9,087

7,543
7,554
7,565
7,576
7,587

64,000
64,050
64,100
64,150
64,200

64,050
64,100
64,150
64,200
64,250

9,703
9,714
9,725
9,736
9,747

7,272
7,278
7,284
7,290
7,296

9,703
9,714
9,725
9,736
9,747

8,203
8,214
8,225
8,236
8,247

58,250
58,300
58,350
58,400
58,450

58,300
58,350
58,400
58,450
58,500

8,438
8,449
8,460
8,471
8,482

6,582
6,588
6,594
6,600
6,606

8,438
8,449
8,460
8,471
8,482

6,938
6,949
6,960
6,971
6,982

61,250
61,300
61,350
61,400
61,450

61,300
61,350
61,400
61,450
61,500

9,098
9,109
9,120
9,131
9,142

6,942
6,948
6,954
6,960
6,966

9,098
9,109
9,120
9,131
9,142

7,598
7,609
7,620
7,631
7,642

64,250
64,300
64,350
64,400
64,450

64,300
64,350
64,400
64,450
64,500

9,758
9,769
9,780
9,791
9,802

7,302
7,308
7,314
7,320
7,326

9,758
9,769
9,780
9,791
9,802

8,258
8,269
8,280
8,291
8,302

58,500
58,550
58,600
58,650
58,700

58,550
58,600
58,650
58,700
58,750

8,493
8,504
8,515
8,526
8,537

6,612
6,618
6,624
6,630
6,636

8,493
8,504
8,515
8,526
8,537

6,993
7,004
7,015
7,026
7,037

61,500
61,550
61,600
61,650
61,700

61,550
61,600
61,650
61,700
61,750

9,153
9,164
9,175
9,186
9,197

6,972
6,978
6,984
6,990
6,996

9,153
9,164
9,175
9,186
9,197

7,653
7,664
7,675
7,686
7,697

64,500
64,550
64,600
64,650
64,700

64,550
64,600
64,650
64,700
64,750

9,813
9,824
9,835
9,846
9,857

7,332
7,338
7,344
7,350
7,356

9,813
9,824
9,835
9,846
9,857

8,313
8,324
8,335
8,346
8,357

58,750
58,800
58,850
58,900
58,950

58,800
58,850
58,900
58,950
59,000

8,548
8,559
8,570
8,581
8,592

6,642
6,648
6,654
6,660
6,666

8,548
8,559
8,570
8,581
8,592

7,048
7,059
7,070
7,081
7,092

61,750
61,800
61,850
61,900
61,950

61,800
61,850
61,900
61,950
62,000

9,208
9,219
9,230
9,241
9,252

7,002
7,008
7,014
7,020
7,026

9,208
9,219
9,230
9,241
9,252

7,708
7,719
7,730
7,741
7,752

64,750
64,800
64,850
64,900
64,950

64,800
64,850
64,900
64,950
65,000

9,868
9,879
9,890
9,901
9,912

7,362
7,368
7,374
7,380
7,386

9,868
9,879
9,890
9,901
9,912

8,368
8,379
8,390
8,401
8,412

59,000

62,000

65,000

59,000
59,050
59,100
59,150
59,200

59,050
59,100
59,150
59,200
59,250

8,603
8,614
8,625
8,636
8,647

6,672
6,678
6,684
6,690
6,696

8,603
8,614
8,625
8,636
8,647

7,103
7,114
7,125
7,136
7,147

62,000
62,050
62,100
62,150
62,200

62,050
62,100
62,150
62,200
62,250

9,263
9,274
9,285
9,296
9,307

7,032
7,038
7,044
7,050
7,056

9,263
9,274
9,285
9,296
9,307

7,763
7,774
7,785
7,796
7,807

65,000
65,050
65,100
65,150
65,200

65,050
65,100
65,150
65,200
65,250

9,923
9,934
9,945
9,956
9,967

7,392
7,398
7,404
7,410
7,416

9,923
9,934
9,945
9,956
9,967

8,423
8,434
8,445
8,456
8,467

59,250
59,300
59,350
59,400
59,450

59,300
59,350
59,400
59,450
59,500

8,658
8,669
8,680
8,691
8,702

6,702
6,708
6,714
6,720
6,726

8,658
8,669
8,680
8,691
8,702

7,158
7,169
7,180
7,191
7,202

62,250
62,300
62,350
62,400
62,450

62,300
62,350
62,400
62,450
62,500

9,318
9,329
9,340
9,351
9,362

7,062
7,068
7,074
7,080
7,086

9,318
9,329
9,340
9,351
9,362

7,818
7,829
7,840
7,851
7,862

65,250
65,300
65,350
65,400
65,450

65,300
65,350
65,400
65,450
65,500

9,978
9,989
10,000
10,011
10,022

7,422
7,428
7,434
7,440
7,446

9,978
9,989
10,000
10,011
10,022

8,478
8,489
8,500
8,511
8,522

59,500
59,550
59,600
59,650
59,700

59,550
59,600
59,650
59,700
59,750

8,713
8,724
8,735
8,746
8,757

6,732
6,738
6,744
6,750
6,756

8,713
8,724
8,735
8,746
8,757

7,213
7,224
7,235
7,246
7,257

62,500
62,550
62,600
62,650
62,700

62,550
62,600
62,650
62,700
62,750

9,373
9,384
9,395
9,406
9,417

7,092
7,098
7,104
7,110
7,116

9,373
9,384
9,395
9,406
9,417

7,873
7,884
7,895
7,906
7,917

65,500
65,550
65,600
65,650
65,700

65,550
65,600
65,650
65,700
65,750

10,033
10,044
10,055
10,066
10,077

7,452
7,458
7,464
7,470
7,476

10,033
10,044
10,055
10,066
10,077

8,533
8,544
8,555
8,566
8,577

59,750
59,800
59,850
59,900
59,950

59,800
59,850
59,900
59,950
60,000

8,768
8,779
8,790
8,801
8,812

6,762
6,768
6,774
6,780
6,786

8,768
8,779
8,790
8,801
8,812

7,268
7,279
7,290
7,301
7,312

62,750
62,800
62,850
62,900
62,950

62,800
62,850
62,900
62,950
63,000

9,428
9,439
9,450
9,461
9,472

7,122
7,128
7,134
7,140
7,146

9,428
9,439
9,450
9,461
9,472

7,928
7,939
7,950
7,961
7,972

65,750
65,800
65,850
65,900
65,950

65,800
65,850
65,900
65,950
66,000

10,088
10,099
10,110
10,121
10,132

7,482
7,488
7,494
7,500
7,506

10,088
10,099
10,110
10,121
10,132

8,588
8,599
8,610
8,621
8,632

(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

- 70 -

2022 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

66,000

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold
Your tax is—

69,000

72,000

66,000
66,050
66,100
66,150
66,200

66,050
66,100
66,150
66,200
66,250

10,143
10,154
10,165
10,176
10,187

7,512
7,518
7,524
7,530
7,536

10,143
10,154
10,165
10,176
10,187

8,643
8,654
8,665
8,676
8,687

69,000
69,050
69,100
69,150
69,200

69,050
69,100
69,150
69,200
69,250

10,803
10,814
10,825
10,836
10,847

7,872
7,878
7,884
7,890
7,896

10,803
10,814
10,825
10,836
10,847

9,303
9,314
9,325
9,336
9,347

72,000
72,050
72,100
72,150
72,200

72,050
72,100
72,150
72,200
72,250

11,463
11,474
11,485
11,496
11,507

8,232
8,238
8,244
8,250
8,256

11,463
11,474
11,485
11,496
11,507

9,963
9,974
9,985
9,996
10,007

66,250
66,300
66,350
66,400
66,450

66,300
66,350
66,400
66,450
66,500

10,198
10,209
10,220
10,231
10,242

7,542
7,548
7,554
7,560
7,566

10,198
10,209
10,220
10,231
10,242

8,698
8,709
8,720
8,731
8,742

69,250
69,300
69,350
69,400
69,450

69,300
69,350
69,400
69,450
69,500

10,858
10,869
10,880
10,891
10,902

7,902
7,908
7,914
7,920
7,926

10,858
10,869
10,880
10,891
10,902

9,358
9,369
9,380
9,391
9,402

72,250
72,300
72,350
72,400
72,450

72,300
72,350
72,400
72,450
72,500

11,518
11,529
11,540
11,551
11,562

8,262
8,268
8,274
8,280
8,286

11,518
11,529
11,540
11,551
11,562

10,018
10,029
10,040
10,051
10,062

66,500
66,550
66,600
66,650
66,700

66,550
66,600
66,650
66,700
66,750

10,253
10,264
10,275
10,286
10,297

7,572
7,578
7,584
7,590
7,596

10,253
10,264
10,275
10,286
10,297

8,753
8,764
8,775
8,786
8,797

69,500
69,550
69,600
69,650
69,700

69,550
69,600
69,650
69,700
69,750

10,913
10,924
10,935
10,946
10,957

7,932
7,938
7,944
7,950
7,956

10,913
10,924
10,935
10,946
10,957

9,413
9,424
9,435
9,446
9,457

72,500
72,550
72,600
72,650
72,700

72,550
72,600
72,650
72,700
72,750

11,573
11,584
11,595
11,606
11,617

8,292
8,298
8,304
8,310
8,316

11,573
11,584
11,595
11,606
11,617

10,073
10,084
10,095
10,106
10,117

66,750
66,800
66,850
66,900
66,950

66,800
66,850
66,900
66,950
67,000

10,308
10,319
10,330
10,341
10,352

7,602
7,608
7,614
7,620
7,626

10,308
10,319
10,330
10,341
10,352

8,808
8,819
8,830
8,841
8,852

69,750
69,800
69,850
69,900
69,950

69,800
69,850
69,900
69,950
70,000

10,968
10,979
10,990
11,001
11,012

7,962
7,968
7,974
7,980
7,986

10,968
10,979
10,990
11,001
11,012

9,468
9,479
9,490
9,501
9,512

72,750
72,800
72,850
72,900
72,950

72,800
72,850
72,900
72,950
73,000

11,628
11,639
11,650
11,661
11,672

8,322
8,328
8,334
8,340
8,346

11,628
11,639
11,650
11,661
11,672

10,128
10,139
10,150
10,161
10,172

67,000

70,000

73,000

67,000
67,050
67,100
67,150
67,200

67,050
67,100
67,150
67,200
67,250

10,363
10,374
10,385
10,396
10,407

7,632
7,638
7,644
7,650
7,656

10,363
10,374
10,385
10,396
10,407

8,863
8,874
8,885
8,896
8,907

70,000
70,050
70,100
70,150
70,200

70,050
70,100
70,150
70,200
70,250

11,023
11,034
11,045
11,056
11,067

7,992
7,998
8,004
8,010
8,016

11,023
11,034
11,045
11,056
11,067

9,523
9,534
9,545
9,556
9,567

73,000
73,050
73,100
73,150
73,200

73,050
73,100
73,150
73,200
73,250

11,683
11,694
11,705
11,716
11,727

8,352
8,358
8,364
8,370
8,376

11,683
11,694
11,705
11,716
11,727

10,183
10,194
10,205
10,216
10,227

67,250
67,300
67,350
67,400
67,450

67,300
67,350
67,400
67,450
67,500

10,418
10,429
10,440
10,451
10,462

7,662
7,668
7,674
7,680
7,686

10,418
10,429
10,440
10,451
10,462

8,918
8,929
8,940
8,951
8,962

70,250
70,300
70,350
70,400
70,450

70,300
70,350
70,400
70,450
70,500

11,078
11,089
11,100
11,111
11,122

8,022
8,028
8,034
8,040
8,046

11,078
11,089
11,100
11,111
11,122

9,578
9,589
9,600
9,611
9,622

73,250
73,300
73,350
73,400
73,450

73,300
73,350
73,400
73,450
73,500

11,738
11,749
11,760
11,771
11,782

8,382
8,388
8,394
8,400
8,406

11,738
11,749
11,760
11,771
11,782

10,238
10,249
10,260
10,271
10,282

67,500
67,550
67,600
67,650
67,700

67,550
67,600
67,650
67,700
67,750

10,473
10,484
10,495
10,506
10,517

7,692
7,698
7,704
7,710
7,716

10,473
10,484
10,495
10,506
10,517

8,973
8,984
8,995
9,006
9,017

70,500
70,550
70,600
70,650
70,700

70,550
70,600
70,650
70,700
70,750

11,133
11,144
11,155
11,166
11,177

8,052
8,058
8,064
8,070
8,076

11,133
11,144
11,155
11,166
11,177

9,633
9,644
9,655
9,666
9,677

73,500
73,550
73,600
73,650
73,700

73,550
73,600
73,650
73,700
73,750

11,793
11,804
11,815
11,826
11,837

8,412
8,418
8,424
8,430
8,436

11,793
11,804
11,815
11,826
11,837

10,293
10,304
10,315
10,326
10,337

67,750
67,800
67,850
67,900
67,950

67,800
67,850
67,900
67,950
68,000

10,528
10,539
10,550
10,561
10,572

7,722
7,728
7,734
7,740
7,746

10,528
10,539
10,550
10,561
10,572

9,028
9,039
9,050
9,061
9,072

70,750
70,800
70,850
70,900
70,950

70,800
70,850
70,900
70,950
71,000

11,188
11,199
11,210
11,221
11,232

8,082
8,088
8,094
8,100
8,106

11,188
11,199
11,210
11,221
11,232

9,688
9,699
9,710
9,721
9,732

73,750
73,800
73,850
73,900
73,950

73,800
73,850
73,900
73,950
74,000

11,848
11,859
11,870
11,881
11,892

8,442
8,448
8,454
8,460
8,466

11,848
11,859
11,870
11,881
11,892

10,348
10,359
10,370
10,381
10,392

68,000

71,000

74,000

68,000
68,050
68,100
68,150
68,200

68,050
68,100
68,150
68,200
68,250

10,583
10,594
10,605
10,616
10,627

7,752
7,758
7,764
7,770
7,776

10,583
10,594
10,605
10,616
10,627

9,083
9,094
9,105
9,116
9,127

71,000
71,050
71,100
71,150
71,200

71,050
71,100
71,150
71,200
71,250

11,243
11,254
11,265
11,276
11,287

8,112
8,118
8,124
8,130
8,136

11,243
11,254
11,265
11,276
11,287

9,743
9,754
9,765
9,776
9,787

74,000
74,050
74,100
74,150
74,200

74,050
74,100
74,150
74,200
74,250

11,903
11,914
11,925
11,936
11,947

8,472
8,478
8,484
8,490
8,496

11,903
11,914
11,925
11,936
11,947

10,403
10,414
10,425
10,436
10,447

68,250
68,300
68,350
68,400
68,450

68,300
68,350
68,400
68,450
68,500

10,638
10,649
10,660
10,671
10,682

7,782
7,788
7,794
7,800
7,806

10,638
10,649
10,660
10,671
10,682

9,138
9,149
9,160
9,171
9,182

71,250
71,300
71,350
71,400
71,450

71,300
71,350
71,400
71,450
71,500

11,298
11,309
11,320
11,331
11,342

8,142
8,148
8,154
8,160
8,166

11,298
11,309
11,320
11,331
11,342

9,798
9,809
9,820
9,831
9,842

74,250
74,300
74,350
74,400
74,450

74,300
74,350
74,400
74,450
74,500

11,958
11,969
11,980
11,991
12,002

8,502
8,508
8,514
8,520
8,526

11,958
11,969
11,980
11,991
12,002

10,458
10,469
10,480
10,491
10,502

68,500
68,550
68,600
68,650
68,700

68,550
68,600
68,650
68,700
68,750

10,693
10,704
10,715
10,726
10,737

7,812
7,818
7,824
7,830
7,836

10,693
10,704
10,715
10,726
10,737

9,193
9,204
9,215
9,226
9,237

71,500
71,550
71,600
71,650
71,700

71,550
71,600
71,650
71,700
71,750

11,353
11,364
11,375
11,386
11,397

8,172
8,178
8,184
8,190
8,196

11,353
11,364
11,375
11,386
11,397

9,853
9,864
9,875
9,886
9,897

74,500
74,550
74,600
74,650
74,700

74,550
74,600
74,650
74,700
74,750

12,013
12,024
12,035
12,046
12,057

8,532
8,538
8,544
8,550
8,556

12,013
12,024
12,035
12,046
12,057

10,513
10,524
10,535
10,546
10,557

68,750
68,800
68,850
68,900
68,950

68,800
68,850
68,900
68,950
69,000

10,748
10,759
10,770
10,781
10,792

7,842
7,848
7,854
7,860
7,866

10,748
10,759
10,770
10,781
10,792

9,248
9,259
9,270
9,281
9,292

71,750
71,800
71,850
71,900
71,950

71,800
71,850
71,900
71,950
72,000

11,408
11,419
11,430
11,441
11,452

8,202
8,208
8,214
8,220
8,226

11,408
11,419
11,430
11,441
11,452

9,908
9,919
9,930
9,941
9,952

74,750
74,800
74,850
74,900
74,950

74,800
74,850
74,900
74,950
75,000

12,068
12,079
12,090
12,101
12,112

8,562
8,568
8,574
8,580
8,586

12,068
12,079
12,090
12,101
12,112

10,568
10,579
10,590
10,601
10,612

(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.

- 71 -

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

2022 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

75,000

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold
Your tax is—

78,000

81,000

75,000
75,050
75,100
75,150
75,200

75,050
75,100
75,150
75,200
75,250

12,123
12,134
12,145
12,156
12,167

8,592
8,598
8,604
8,610
8,616

12,123
12,134
12,145
12,156
12,167

10,623
10,634
10,645
10,656
10,667

78,000
78,050
78,100
78,150
78,200

78,050
78,100
78,150
78,200
78,250

12,783
12,794
12,805
12,816
12,827

8,952
8,958
8,964
8,970
8,976

12,783
12,794
12,805
12,816
12,827

11,283
11,294
11,305
11,316
11,327

81,000
81,050
81,100
81,150
81,200

81,050
81,100
81,150
81,200
81,250

13,443
13,454
13,465
13,476
13,487

9,312
9,318
9,324
9,330
9,336

13,443
13,454
13,465
13,476
13,487

11,943
11,954
11,965
11,976
11,987

75,250
75,300
75,350
75,400
75,450

75,300
75,350
75,400
75,450
75,500

12,178
12,189
12,200
12,211
12,222

8,622
8,628
8,634
8,640
8,646

12,178
12,189
12,200
12,211
12,222

10,678
10,689
10,700
10,711
10,722

78,250
78,300
78,350
78,400
78,450

78,300
78,350
78,400
78,450
78,500

12,838
12,849
12,860
12,871
12,882

8,982
8,988
8,994
9,000
9,006

12,838
12,849
12,860
12,871
12,882

11,338
11,349
11,360
11,371
11,382

81,250
81,300
81,350
81,400
81,450

81,300
81,350
81,400
81,450
81,500

13,498
13,509
13,520
13,531
13,542

9,342
9,348
9,354
9,360
9,366

13,498
13,509
13,520
13,531
13,542

11,998
12,009
12,020
12,031
12,042

75,500
75,550
75,600
75,650
75,700

75,550
75,600
75,650
75,700
75,750

12,233
12,244
12,255
12,266
12,277

8,652
8,658
8,664
8,670
8,676

12,233
12,244
12,255
12,266
12,277

10,733
10,744
10,755
10,766
10,777

78,500
78,550
78,600
78,650
78,700

78,550
78,600
78,650
78,700
78,750

12,893
12,904
12,915
12,926
12,937

9,012
9,018
9,024
9,030
9,036

12,893
12,904
12,915
12,926
12,937

11,393
11,404
11,415
11,426
11,437

81,500
81,550
81,600
81,650
81,700

81,550
81,600
81,650
81,700
81,750

13,553
13,564
13,575
13,586
13,597

9,372
9,378
9,384
9,390
9,396

13,553
13,564
13,575
13,586
13,597

12,053
12,064
12,075
12,086
12,097

75,750
75,800
75,850
75,900
75,950

75,800
75,850
75,900
75,950
76,000

12,288
12,299
12,310
12,321
12,332

8,682
8,688
8,694
8,700
8,706

12,288
12,299
12,310
12,321
12,332

10,788
10,799
10,810
10,821
10,832

78,750
78,800
78,850
78,900
78,950

78,800
78,850
78,900
78,950
79,000

12,948
12,959
12,970
12,981
12,992

9,042
9,048
9,054
9,060
9,066

12,948
12,959
12,970
12,981
12,992

11,448
11,459
11,470
11,481
11,492

81,750
81,800
81,850
81,900
81,950

81,800
81,850
81,900
81,950
82,000

13,608
13,619
13,630
13,641
13,652

9,402
9,408
9,414
9,420
9,426

13,608
13,619
13,630
13,641
13,652

12,108
12,119
12,130
12,141
12,152

76,000

79,000

82,000

76,000
76,050
76,100
76,150
76,200

76,050
76,100
76,150
76,200
76,250

12,343
12,354
12,365
12,376
12,387

8,712
8,718
8,724
8,730
8,736

12,343
12,354
12,365
12,376
12,387

10,843
10,854
10,865
10,876
10,887

79,000
79,050
79,100
79,150
79,200

79,050
79,100
79,150
79,200
79,250

13,003
13,014
13,025
13,036
13,047

9,072
9,078
9,084
9,090
9,096

13,003
13,014
13,025
13,036
13,047

11,503
11,514
11,525
11,536
11,547

82,000
82,050
82,100
82,150
82,200

82,050
82,100
82,150
82,200
82,250

13,663
13,674
13,685
13,696
13,707

9,432
9,438
9,444
9,450
9,456

13,663
13,674
13,685
13,696
13,707

12,163
12,174
12,185
12,196
12,207

76,250
76,300
76,350
76,400
76,450

76,300
76,350
76,400
76,450
76,500

12,398
12,409
12,420
12,431
12,442

8,742
8,748
8,754
8,760
8,766

12,398
12,409
12,420
12,431
12,442

10,898
10,909
10,920
10,931
10,942

79,250
79,300
79,350
79,400
79,450

79,300
79,350
79,400
79,450
79,500

13,058
13,069
13,080
13,091
13,102

9,102
9,108
9,114
9,120
9,126

13,058
13,069
13,080
13,091
13,102

11,558
11,569
11,580
11,591
11,602

82,250
82,300
82,350
82,400
82,450

82,300
82,350
82,400
82,450
82,500

13,718
13,729
13,740
13,751
13,762

9,462
9,468
9,474
9,480
9,486

13,718
13,729
13,740
13,751
13,762

12,218
12,229
12,240
12,251
12,262

76,500
76,550
76,600
76,650
76,700

76,550
76,600
76,650
76,700
76,750

12,453
12,464
12,475
12,486
12,497

8,772
8,778
8,784
8,790
8,796

12,453
12,464
12,475
12,486
12,497

10,953
10,964
10,975
10,986
10,997

79,500
79,550
79,600
79,650
79,700

79,550
79,600
79,650
79,700
79,750

13,113
13,124
13,135
13,146
13,157

9,132
9,138
9,144
9,150
9,156

13,113
13,124
13,135
13,146
13,157

11,613
11,624
11,635
11,646
11,657

82,500
82,550
82,600
82,650
82,700

82,550
82,600
82,650
82,700
82,750

13,773
13,784
13,795
13,806
13,817

9,492
9,498
9,504
9,510
9,516

13,773
13,784
13,795
13,806
13,817

12,273
12,284
12,295
12,306
12,317

76,750
76,800
76,850
76,900
76,950

76,800
76,850
76,900
76,950
77,000

12,508
12,519
12,530
12,541
12,552

8,802
8,808
8,814
8,820
8,826

12,508
12,519
12,530
12,541
12,552

11,008
11,019
11,030
11,041
11,052

79,750
79,800
79,850
79,900
79,950

79,800
79,850
79,900
79,950
80,000

13,168
13,179
13,190
13,201
13,212

9,162
9,168
9,174
9,180
9,186

13,168
13,179
13,190
13,201
13,212

11,668
11,679
11,690
11,701
11,712

82,750
82,800
82,850
82,900
82,950

82,800
82,850
82,900
82,950
83,000

13,828
13,839
13,850
13,861
13,872

9,522
9,528
9,534
9,540
9,546

13,828
13,839
13,850
13,861
13,872

12,328
12,339
12,350
12,361
12,372

77,000

80,000

83,000

77,000
77,050
77,100
77,150
77,200

77,050
77,100
77,150
77,200
77,250

12,563
12,574
12,585
12,596
12,607

8,832
8,838
8,844
8,850
8,856

12,563
12,574
12,585
12,596
12,607

11,063
11,074
11,085
11,096
11,107

80,000
80,050
80,100
80,150
80,200

80,050
80,100
80,150
80,200
80,250

13,223
13,234
13,245
13,256
13,267

9,192
9,198
9,204
9,210
9,216

13,223
13,234
13,245
13,256
13,267

11,723
11,734
11,745
11,756
11,767

83,000
83,050
83,100
83,150
83,200

83,050
83,100
83,150
83,200
83,250

13,883
13,894
13,905
13,916
13,927

9,552
9,558
9,564
9,570
9,576

13,883
13,894
13,905
13,916
13,927

12,383
12,394
12,405
12,416
12,427

77,250
77,300
77,350
77,400
77,450

77,300
77,350
77,400
77,450
77,500

12,618
12,629
12,640
12,651
12,662

8,862
8,868
8,874
8,880
8,886

12,618
12,629
12,640
12,651
12,662

11,118
11,129
11,140
11,151
11,162

80,250
80,300
80,350
80,400
80,450

80,300
80,350
80,400
80,450
80,500

13,278
13,289
13,300
13,311
13,322

9,222
9,228
9,234
9,240
9,246

13,278
13,289
13,300
13,311
13,322

11,778
11,789
11,800
11,811
11,822

83,250
83,300
83,350
83,400
83,450

83,300
83,350
83,400
83,450
83,500

13,938
13,949
13,960
13,971
13,982

9,582
9,588
9,594
9,600
9,606

13,938
13,949
13,960
13,971
13,982

12,438
12,449
12,460
12,471
12,482

77,500
77,550
77,600
77,650
77,700

77,550
77,600
77,650
77,700
77,750

12,673
12,684
12,695
12,706
12,717

8,892
8,898
8,904
8,910
8,916

12,673
12,684
12,695
12,706
12,717

11,173
11,184
11,195
11,206
11,217

80,500
80,550
80,600
80,650
80,700

80,550
80,600
80,650
80,700
80,750

13,333
13,344
13,355
13,366
13,377

9,252
9,258
9,264
9,270
9,276

13,333
13,344
13,355
13,366
13,377

11,833
11,844
11,855
11,866
11,877

83,500
83,550
83,600
83,650
83,700

83,550
83,600
83,650
83,700
83,750

13,993
14,004
14,015
14,026
14,037

9,612
9,621
9,632
9,643
9,654

13,993
14,004
14,015
14,026
14,037

12,493
12,504
12,515
12,526
12,537

77,750
77,800
77,850
77,900
77,950

77,800
77,850
77,900
77,950
78,000

12,728
12,739
12,750
12,761
12,772

8,922
8,928
8,934
8,940
8,946

12,728
12,739
12,750
12,761
12,772

11,228
11,239
11,250
11,261
11,272

80,750
80,800
80,850
80,900
80,950

80,800
80,850
80,900
80,950
81,000

13,388
13,399
13,410
13,421
13,432

9,282
9,288
9,294
9,300
9,306

13,388
13,399
13,410
13,421
13,432

11,888
11,899
11,910
11,921
11,932

83,750
83,800
83,850
83,900
83,950

83,800
83,850
83,900
83,950
84,000

14,048
14,059
14,070
14,081
14,092

9,665
9,676
9,687
9,698
9,709

14,048
14,059
14,070
14,081
14,092

12,548
12,559
12,570
12,581
12,592

(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

- 72 -

2022 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

84,000

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold
Your tax is—

87,000

90,000

84,000
84,050
84,100
84,150
84,200

84,050
84,100
84,150
84,200
84,250

14,103
14,114
14,125
14,136
14,147

9,720
9,731
9,742
9,753
9,764

14,103
14,114
14,125
14,136
14,147

12,603
12,614
12,625
12,636
12,647

87,000
87,050
87,100
87,150
87,200

87,050
87,100
87,150
87,200
87,250

14,763
14,774
14,785
14,796
14,807

10,380
10,391
10,402
10,413
10,424

14,763
14,774
14,785
14,796
14,807

13,263
13,274
13,285
13,296
13,307

90,000
90,050
90,100
90,150
90,200

90,050
90,100
90,150
90,200
90,250

15,442
15,454
15,466
15,478
15,490

11,040
11,051
11,062
11,073
11,084

15,442
15,454
15,466
15,478
15,490

13,942
13,954
13,966
13,978
13,990

84,250
84,300
84,350
84,400
84,450

84,300
84,350
84,400
84,450
84,500

14,158
14,169
14,180
14,191
14,202

9,775
9,786
9,797
9,808
9,819

14,158
14,169
14,180
14,191
14,202

12,658
12,669
12,680
12,691
12,702

87,250
87,300
87,350
87,400
87,450

87,300
87,350
87,400
87,450
87,500

14,818
14,829
14,840
14,851
14,862

10,435
10,446
10,457
10,468
10,479

14,818
14,829
14,840
14,851
14,862

13,318
13,329
13,340
13,351
13,362

90,250
90,300
90,350
90,400
90,450

90,300
90,350
90,400
90,450
90,500

15,502
15,514
15,526
15,538
15,550

11,095
11,106
11,117
11,128
11,139

15,502
15,514
15,526
15,538
15,550

14,002
14,014
14,026
14,038
14,050

84,500
84,550
84,600
84,650
84,700

84,550
84,600
84,650
84,700
84,750

14,213
14,224
14,235
14,246
14,257

9,830
9,841
9,852
9,863
9,874

14,213
14,224
14,235
14,246
14,257

12,713
12,724
12,735
12,746
12,757

87,500
87,550
87,600
87,650
87,700

87,550
87,600
87,650
87,700
87,750

14,873
14,884
14,895
14,906
14,917

10,490
10,501
10,512
10,523
10,534

14,873
14,884
14,895
14,906
14,917

13,373
13,384
13,395
13,406
13,417

90,500
90,550
90,600
90,650
90,700

90,550
90,600
90,650
90,700
90,750

15,562
15,574
15,586
15,598
15,610

11,150
11,161
11,172
11,183
11,194

15,562
15,574
15,586
15,598
15,610

14,062
14,074
14,086
14,098
14,110

84,750
84,800
84,850
84,900
84,950

84,800
84,850
84,900
84,950
85,000

14,268
14,279
14,290
14,301
14,312

9,885
9,896
9,907
9,918
9,929

14,268
14,279
14,290
14,301
14,312

12,768
12,779
12,790
12,801
12,812

87,750
87,800
87,850
87,900
87,950

87,800
87,850
87,900
87,950
88,000

14,928
14,939
14,950
14,961
14,972

10,545
10,556
10,567
10,578
10,589

14,928
14,939
14,950
14,961
14,972

13,428
13,439
13,450
13,461
13,472

90,750
90,800
90,850
90,900
90,950

90,800
90,850
90,900
90,950
91,000

15,622
15,634
15,646
15,658
15,670

11,205
11,216
11,227
11,238
11,249

15,622
15,634
15,646
15,658
15,670

14,122
14,134
14,146
14,158
14,170

85,000

88,000

91,000

85,000
85,050
85,100
85,150
85,200

85,050
85,100
85,150
85,200
85,250

14,323
14,334
14,345
14,356
14,367

9,940
9,951
9,962
9,973
9,984

14,323
14,334
14,345
14,356
14,367

12,823
12,834
12,845
12,856
12,867

88,000
88,050
88,100
88,150
88,200

88,050
88,100
88,150
88,200
88,250

14,983
14,994
15,005
15,016
15,027

10,600
10,611
10,622
10,633
10,644

14,983
14,994
15,005
15,016
15,027

13,483
13,494
13,505
13,516
13,527

91,000
91,050
91,100
91,150
91,200

91,050
91,100
91,150
91,200
91,250

15,682
15,694
15,706
15,718
15,730

11,260
11,271
11,282
11,293
11,304

15,682
15,694
15,706
15,718
15,730

14,182
14,194
14,206
14,218
14,230

85,250
85,300
85,350
85,400
85,450

85,300
85,350
85,400
85,450
85,500

14,378
14,389
14,400
14,411
14,422

9,995
10,006
10,017
10,028
10,039

14,378
14,389
14,400
14,411
14,422

12,878
12,889
12,900
12,911
12,922

88,250
88,300
88,350
88,400
88,450

88,300
88,350
88,400
88,450
88,500

15,038
15,049
15,060
15,071
15,082

10,655
10,666
10,677
10,688
10,699

15,038
15,049
15,060
15,071
15,082

13,538
13,549
13,560
13,571
13,582

91,250
91,300
91,350
91,400
91,450

91,300
91,350
91,400
91,450
91,500

15,742
15,754
15,766
15,778
15,790

11,315
11,326
11,337
11,348
11,359

15,742
15,754
15,766
15,778
15,790

14,242
14,254
14,266
14,278
14,290

85,500
85,550
85,600
85,650
85,700

85,550
85,600
85,650
85,700
85,750

14,433
14,444
14,455
14,466
14,477

10,050
10,061
10,072
10,083
10,094

14,433
14,444
14,455
14,466
14,477

12,933
12,944
12,955
12,966
12,977

88,500
88,550
88,600
88,650
88,700

88,550
88,600
88,650
88,700
88,750

15,093
15,104
15,115
15,126
15,137

10,710
10,721
10,732
10,743
10,754

15,093
15,104
15,115
15,126
15,137

13,593
13,604
13,615
13,626
13,637

91,500
91,550
91,600
91,650
91,700

91,550
91,600
91,650
91,700
91,750

15,802
15,814
15,826
15,838
15,850

11,370
11,381
11,392
11,403
11,414

15,802
15,814
15,826
15,838
15,850

14,302
14,314
14,326
14,338
14,350

85,750
85,800
85,850
85,900
85,950

85,800
85,850
85,900
85,950
86,000

14,488
14,499
14,510
14,521
14,532

10,105
10,116
10,127
10,138
10,149

14,488
14,499
14,510
14,521
14,532

12,988
12,999
13,010
13,021
13,032

88,750
88,800
88,850
88,900
88,950

88,800
88,850
88,900
88,950
89,000

15,148
15,159
15,170
15,181
15,192

10,765
10,776
10,787
10,798
10,809

15,148
15,159
15,170
15,181
15,192

13,648
13,659
13,670
13,681
13,692

91,750
91,800
91,850
91,900
91,950

91,800
91,850
91,900
91,950
92,000

15,862
15,874
15,886
15,898
15,910

11,425
11,436
11,447
11,458
11,469

15,862
15,874
15,886
15,898
15,910

14,362
14,374
14,386
14,398
14,410

86,000

89,000

92,000

86,000
86,050
86,100
86,150
86,200

86,050
86,100
86,150
86,200
86,250

14,543
14,554
14,565
14,576
14,587

10,160
10,171
10,182
10,193
10,204

14,543
14,554
14,565
14,576
14,587

13,043
13,054
13,065
13,076
13,087

89,000
89,050
89,100
89,150
89,200

89,050
89,100
89,150
89,200
89,250

15,203
15,214
15,226
15,238
15,250

10,820
10,831
10,842
10,853
10,864

15,203
15,214
15,226
15,238
15,250

13,703
13,714
13,726
13,738
13,750

92,000
92,050
92,100
92,150
92,200

92,050
92,100
92,150
92,200
92,250

15,922
15,934
15,946
15,958
15,970

11,480
11,491
11,502
11,513
11,524

15,922
15,934
15,946
15,958
15,970

14,422
14,434
14,446
14,458
14,470

86,250
86,300
86,350
86,400
86,450

86,300
86,350
86,400
86,450
86,500

14,598
14,609
14,620
14,631
14,642

10,215
10,226
10,237
10,248
10,259

14,598
14,609
14,620
14,631
14,642

13,098
13,109
13,120
13,131
13,142

89,250
89,300
89,350
89,400
89,450

89,300
89,350
89,400
89,450
89,500

15,262
15,274
15,286
15,298
15,310

10,875
10,886
10,897
10,908
10,919

15,262
15,274
15,286
15,298
15,310

13,762
13,774
13,786
13,798
13,810

92,250
92,300
92,350
92,400
92,450

92,300
92,350
92,400
92,450
92,500

15,982
15,994
16,006
16,018
16,030

11,535
11,546
11,557
11,568
11,579

15,982
15,994
16,006
16,018
16,030

14,482
14,494
14,506
14,518
14,530

86,500
86,550
86,600
86,650
86,700

86,550
86,600
86,650
86,700
86,750

14,653
14,664
14,675
14,686
14,697

10,270
10,281
10,292
10,303
10,314

14,653
14,664
14,675
14,686
14,697

13,153
13,164
13,175
13,186
13,197

89,500
89,550
89,600
89,650
89,700

89,550
89,600
89,650
89,700
89,750

15,322
15,334
15,346
15,358
15,370

10,930
10,941
10,952
10,963
10,974

15,322
15,334
15,346
15,358
15,370

13,822
13,834
13,846
13,858
13,870

92,500
92,550
92,600
92,650
92,700

92,550
92,600
92,650
92,700
92,750

16,042
16,054
16,066
16,078
16,090

11,590
11,601
11,612
11,623
11,634

16,042
16,054
16,066
16,078
16,090

14,542
14,554
14,566
14,578
14,590

86,750
86,800
86,850
86,900
86,950

86,800
86,850
86,900
86,950
87,000

14,708
14,719
14,730
14,741
14,752

10,325
10,336
10,347
10,358
10,369

14,708
14,719
14,730
14,741
14,752

13,208
13,219
13,230
13,241
13,252

89,750
89,800
89,850
89,900
89,950

89,800
89,850
89,900
89,950
90,000

15,382
15,394
15,406
15,418
15,430

10,985
10,996
11,007
11,018
11,029

15,382
15,394
15,406
15,418
15,430

13,882
13,894
13,906
13,918
13,930

92,750
92,800
92,850
92,900
92,950

92,800
92,850
92,900
92,950
93,000

16,102
16,114
16,126
16,138
16,150

11,645
11,656
11,667
11,678
11,689

16,102
16,114
16,126
16,138
16,150

14,602
14,614
14,626
14,638
14,650

(Continued)
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.

- 73 -

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

2022 Tax Table — Continued
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

If line 15
(taxable
income) is—

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

At
least

But
less
than

And you are—
Single

Your tax is—

Your tax is—

93,000

Married Married Head of
filing
filing
a
jointly * sepahouserately
hold

99,000

96,000

93,000
93,050
93,100
93,150
93,200

93,050
93,100
93,150
93,200
93,250

16,162
16,174
16,186
16,198
16,210

11,700
11,711
11,722
11,733
11,744

16,162
16,174
16,186
16,198
16,210

14,662
14,674
14,686
14,698
14,710

96,000
96,050
96,100
96,150
96,200

96,050
96,100
96,150
96,200
96,250

16,882
16,894
16,906
16,918
16,930

12,360
12,371
12,382
12,393
12,404

16,882
16,894
16,906
16,918
16,930

15,382
15,394
15,406
15,418
15,430

99,000
99,050
99,100
99,150
99,200

99,050
99,100
99,150
99,200
99,250

17,602
17,614
17,626
17,638
17,650

13,020
13,031
13,042
13,053
13,064

17,602
17,614
17,626
17,638
17,650

16,102
16,114
16,126
16,138
16,150

93,250
93,300
93,350
93,400
93,450

93,300
93,350
93,400
93,450
93,500

16,222
16,234
16,246
16,258
16,270

11,755
11,766
11,777
11,788
11,799

16,222
16,234
16,246
16,258
16,270

14,722
14,734
14,746
14,758
14,770

96,250
96,300
96,350
96,400
96,450

96,300
96,350
96,400
96,450
96,500

16,942
16,954
16,966
16,978
16,990

12,415
12,426
12,437
12,448
12,459

16,942
16,954
16,966
16,978
16,990

15,442
15,454
15,466
15,478
15,490

99,250
99,300
99,350
99,400
99,450

99,300
99,350
99,400
99,450
99,500

17,662
17,674
17,686
17,698
17,710

13,075
13,086
13,097
13,108
13,119

17,662
17,674
17,686
17,698
17,710

16,162
16,174
16,186
16,198
16,210

93,500
93,550
93,600
93,650
93,700

93,550
93,600
93,650
93,700
93,750

16,282
16,294
16,306
16,318
16,330

11,810
11,821
11,832
11,843
11,854

16,282
16,294
16,306
16,318
16,330

14,782
14,794
14,806
14,818
14,830

96,500
96,550
96,600
96,650
96,700

96,550
96,600
96,650
96,700
96,750

17,002
17,014
17,026
17,038
17,050

12,470
12,481
12,492
12,503
12,514

17,002
17,014
17,026
17,038
17,050

15,502
15,514
15,526
15,538
15,550

99,500
99,550
99,600
99,650
99,700

99,550
99,600
99,650
99,700
99,750

17,722
17,734
17,746
17,758
17,770

13,130
13,141
13,152
13,163
13,174

17,722
17,734
17,746
17,758
17,770

16,222
16,234
16,246
16,258
16,270

93,750
93,800
93,850
93,900
93,950

93,800
93,850
93,900
93,950
94,000

16,342
16,354
16,366
16,378
16,390

11,865
11,876
11,887
11,898
11,909

16,342
16,354
16,366
16,378
16,390

14,842
14,854
14,866
14,878
14,890

96,750
96,800
96,850
96,900
96,950

96,800
96,850
96,900
96,950
97,000

17,062
17,074
17,086
17,098
17,110

12,525
12,536
12,547
12,558
12,569

17,062
17,074
17,086
17,098
17,110

15,562
15,574
15,586
15,598
15,610

99,750
99,800
99,800
99,850
99,850
99,900
99,900
99,950
99,950 100,000

17,782
17,794
17,806
17,818
17,830

13,185
13,196
13,207
13,218
13,229

17,782
17,794
17,806
17,818
17,830

16,282
16,294
16,306
16,318
16,330

94,000

97,000

94,000
94,050
94,100
94,150
94,200

94,050
94,100
94,150
94,200
94,250

16,402
16,414
16,426
16,438
16,450

11,920
11,931
11,942
11,953
11,964

16,402
16,414
16,426
16,438
16,450

14,902
14,914
14,926
14,938
14,950

97,000
97,050
97,100
97,150
97,200

97,050
97,100
97,150
97,200
97,250

17,122
17,134
17,146
17,158
17,170

12,580
12,591
12,602
12,613
12,624

17,122
17,134
17,146
17,158
17,170

15,622
15,634
15,646
15,658
15,670

94,250
94,300
94,350
94,400
94,450

94,300
94,350
94,400
94,450
94,500

16,462
16,474
16,486
16,498
16,510

11,975
11,986
11,997
12,008
12,019

16,462
16,474
16,486
16,498
16,510

14,962
14,974
14,986
14,998
15,010

97,250
97,300
97,350
97,400
97,450

97,300
97,350
97,400
97,450
97,500

17,182
17,194
17,206
17,218
17,230

12,635
12,646
12,657
12,668
12,679

17,182
17,194
17,206
17,218
17,230

15,682
15,694
15,706
15,718
15,730

94,500
94,550
94,600
94,650
94,700

94,550
94,600
94,650
94,700
94,750

16,522
16,534
16,546
16,558
16,570

12,030
12,041
12,052
12,063
12,074

16,522
16,534
16,546
16,558
16,570

15,022
15,034
15,046
15,058
15,070

97,500
97,550
97,600
97,650
97,700

97,550
97,600
97,650
97,700
97,750

17,242
17,254
17,266
17,278
17,290

12,690
12,701
12,712
12,723
12,734

17,242
17,254
17,266
17,278
17,290

15,742
15,754
15,766
15,778
15,790

94,750
94,800
94,850
94,900
94,950

94,800
94,850
94,900
94,950
95,000

16,582
16,594
16,606
16,618
16,630

12,085
12,096
12,107
12,118
12,129

16,582
16,594
16,606
16,618
16,630

15,082
15,094
15,106
15,118
15,130

97,750
97,800
97,850
97,900
97,950

97,800
97,850
97,900
97,950
98,000

17,302
17,314
17,326
17,338
17,350

12,745
12,756
12,767
12,778
12,789

17,302
17,314
17,326
17,338
17,350

15,802
15,814
15,826
15,838
15,850

95,000

98,000

95,000
95,050
95,100
95,150
95,200

95,050
95,100
95,150
95,200
95,250

16,642
16,654
16,666
16,678
16,690

12,140
12,151
12,162
12,173
12,184

16,642
16,654
16,666
16,678
16,690

15,142
15,154
15,166
15,178
15,190

98,000
98,050
98,100
98,150
98,200

98,050
98,100
98,150
98,200
98,250

17,362
17,374
17,386
17,398
17,410

12,800
12,811
12,822
12,833
12,844

17,362
17,374
17,386
17,398
17,410

15,862
15,874
15,886
15,898
15,910

95,250
95,300
95,350
95,400
95,450

95,300
95,350
95,400
95,450
95,500

16,702
16,714
16,726
16,738
16,750

12,195
12,206
12,217
12,228
12,239

16,702
16,714
16,726
16,738
16,750

15,202
15,214
15,226
15,238
15,250

98,250
98,300
98,350
98,400
98,450

98,300
98,350
98,400
98,450
98,500

17,422
17,434
17,446
17,458
17,470

12,855
12,866
12,877
12,888
12,899

17,422
17,434
17,446
17,458
17,470

15,922
15,934
15,946
15,958
15,970

95,500
95,550
95,600
95,650
95,700

95,550
95,600
95,650
95,700
95,750

16,762
16,774
16,786
16,798
16,810

12,250
12,261
12,272
12,283
12,294

16,762
16,774
16,786
16,798
16,810

15,262
15,274
15,286
15,298
15,310

98,500
98,550
98,600
98,650
98,700

98,550
98,600
98,650
98,700
98,750

17,482
17,494
17,506
17,518
17,530

12,910
12,921
12,932
12,943
12,954

17,482
17,494
17,506
17,518
17,530

15,982
15,994
16,006
16,018
16,030

95,750
95,800
95,850
95,900
95,950

95,800
95,850
95,900
95,950
96,000

16,822
16,834
16,846
16,858
16,870

12,305
12,316
12,327
12,338
12,349

16,822
16,834
16,846
16,858
16,870

15,322
15,334
15,346
15,358
15,370

98,750
98,800
98,850
98,900
98,950

98,800
98,850
98,900
98,950
99,000

17,542
17,554
17,566
17,578
17,590

12,965
12,976
12,987
12,998
13,009

17,542
17,554
17,566
17,578
17,590

16,042
16,054
16,066
16,078
16,090

* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

- 74 -

$100,000
or over
use the Tax
Computation
Worksheet

2022 Tax Computation Worksheet—Line 16

!

See the instructions for line 16 to see if you must use the worksheet below to figure your tax.

CAUTION

Note. If you are required to use this worksheet to figure the tax on an amount from another form or worksheet, such as the Qualified Dividends
and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet, the Schedule D Tax Worksheet, Schedule J, Form 8615, or the Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet, enter
the amount from that form or worksheet in column (a) of the row that applies to the amount you are looking up. Enter the result on the
appropriate line of the form or worksheet that you are completing.

Section A—Use if your filing status is Single. Complete the row below that applies to you.

Taxable income.
If line 15 is—

(a)
Enter the amount from line 15

(c)
Multiply
(a) by (b)

(b)
Multiplication amount

Tax.
Subtract (d) from (c). Enter
(d)
the result here and on the entry
Subtraction amount
space on line 16.

At least $100,000 but not over $170,050 $

× 24% (0.24)

$

$ 6,164.50

$

Over $170,050 but not over $215,950

$

× 32% (0.32)

$

$ 19,768.50

$

Over $215,950 but not over $539,900

$

× 35% (0.35)

$

$ 26,247.00

$

Over $539,900

$

× 37% (0.37)

$

$ 37,045.00

$

Section B—Use if your filing status is Married filing jointly or Qualifying surviving spouse. Complete the row below
that applies to you.

Taxable income.
If line 15 is—

(a)
Enter the amount from line 15

(c)
Multiply
(a) by (b)

(b)
Multiplication amount

Tax.
Subtract (d) from (c). Enter the
(d)
result here and on the entry
Subtraction amount
space on line 16.

At least $100,000 but not over $178,150 $

× 22% (0.22)

$

$ 8,766.00

$

Over $178,150 but not over $340,100

$

× 24% (0.24)

$

$ 12,329.00

$

Over $340,100 but not over $431,900

$

× 32% (0.32)

$

$ 39,537.00

$

Over $431,900 but not over $647,850

$

× 35% (0.35)

$

$ 52,494.00

$

Over $647,850

$

× 37% (0.37)

$

$ 65,451.00

$

Section C—Use if your filing status is Married filing separately. Complete the row below that applies to you.

Taxable income.
If line 15 is—

(a)
Enter the amount from line 15

(c)
Multiply
(a) by (b)

(b)
Multiplication amount

Tax.
Subtract (d) from (c). Enter
(d)
the result here and on the entry
Subtraction amount
space on line 16.

At least $100,000 but not over $170,050 $

× 24% (0.24)

$

$ 6,164.50

$

Over $170,050 but not over $215,950

$

× 32% (0.32)

$

$ 19,768.50

$

Over $215,950 but not over $323,925

$

× 35% (0.35)

$

$ 26,247.00

$

Over $323,925

$

× 37% (0.37)

$

$ 32,725.50

$

Section D—Use if your filing status is Head of household. Complete the row below that applies to you.

Taxable income.
If line 15 is—

(a)
Enter the amount from line 15

(c)
Multiply
(a) by (b)

(b)
Multiplication amount

(d)
Subtraction amount

Tax.
Subtract (d) from (c). Enter
the result here and on the
entry space on line 16.

At least $100,000 but not over $170,050 $

× 24% (0.24)

$

$ 7,664.00

$

Over $170,050 but not over $215,950

$

× 32% (0.32)

$

$ 21,268.00

$

Over $215,950 but not over $539,900

$

× 35% (0.35)

$

$ 27,746.50

$

Over $539,900

$

× 37% (0.37)

$

$ 38,544.50

$

-75-

Need more information or forms? Visit IRS.gov.

General
Information
Voter Registration
Do you need to check or update your
voter registration? Visit Vote.gov to confirm with your state election office.

How To Avoid Common
Mistakes
Mistakes can delay your refund or result
in notices being sent to you. One of the
best ways to file an accurate return is to
file electronically. Tax software does the
math for you and will help you avoid
mistakes. You may be eligible to use
free tax software that will take the
guesswork out of preparing your return.
Free File makes available free
brand-name software and free e-file.
Visit IRS.gov/FreeFile for details. Join
the eight in 10 taxpayers who get their
refunds faster by using direct deposit
and e-file.
• File your return on a standard size
sheet of paper. Cutting the paper may
cause problems in processing your return.
• Make sure you entered the correct
name and social security number (SSN)
for each dependent you claim in the Dependents section. Check that each dependent's name and SSN agrees with the
dependent’s social security card. For
each child under age 17 who is a qualifying child for the child tax credit or
each dependent who qualifies you for
the credit for other dependents, make
sure you checked the appropriate box in
column (4) of the Dependents section.
• Check your math, especially for
the child tax credit, earned income credit
(EIC), taxable social security benefits,
total income, itemized deductions or
standard deduction, taxable income, total tax, federal income tax withheld, and
refund or amount you owe.
• Be sure you used the correct method to figure your tax. See the instructions for line 16.
• Be sure to enter your SSN in the
space provided on page 1 of Form 1040
or 1040-SR. If you are married filing a

The IRS Mission. Provide America's taxpayers top-quality service by helping them
understand and meet their tax responsibilities and enforce the law with integrity and
fairness to all.

joint or separate return, also enter your
spouse's SSN. Be sure to enter your SSN
in the space next to your name. Check
that your name and SSN agree with your
social security card.
• Make sure your name and address
are correct. Enter your (and your spouse's) name in the same order as shown
on your last return.
• If you live in an apartment, be sure
to include your apartment number in
your address.
• If you are taking the standard deduction, see the instructions for line 12
to be sure you entered the correct
amount.
• If you received capital gain distributions but weren't required to file
Schedule D, make sure you checked the
box on line 7.
• If you are taking the EIC, be sure
you used the correct column of the EIC
Table for your filing status and the number of qualifying children you have who
have valid SSNs.
• Remember to sign and date Form
1040 or 1040-SR and enter your occupation(s).
• Attach your Form(s) W-2 and other required forms and schedules. Put all
forms and schedules in the proper order.
See Assemble Your Return, earlier.
• If you owe tax and are paying by
check or money order, be sure to include
all the required information on your payment. See the instructions for line 37 for
details.
• Make sure to check Where Do You
File? before mailing your return. Over
the next several years, the IRS will be
reducing the number of paper tax return
processing sites. Because of this, you
may need to mail your return to a different address than you have in the past.
• Don’t file more than one original
return for the same year, even if you
haven't gotten your refund or haven't
heard from the IRS since you filed. Filing more than one original return for the
same year, or sending in more than one
copy of the same return (unless we ask
you to do so), could delay your refund.

-76-

• Make sure that if you, your spouse
with whom you are filing a joint return,
or your dependent was enrolled in Marketplace coverage, and advance payments of the premium tax credit were
made for the coverage, that you attach
Form 8962. For tax years other than
2020, you may have to repay excess advance payments, even if someone else
enrolled you, your spouse, or your dependent in the Marketplace coverage.
Excess advance payments may also have
to be repaid if you enrolled someone in
Marketplace coverage, you don't claim
that individual as a dependent, and no
one else claims that individual as a dependent. See the instructions for Schedule 2, line 2, and the Instructions for
Form 8962. You or whoever enrolled
you should have received Form 1095-A
from the Marketplace with information
about who was covered and any advance
payments of the premium tax credit.
Innocent Spouse Relief
Generally, both you and your spouse are
each responsible for paying the full
amount of tax, interest, and penalties on
your joint return. However, you may
qualify for relief from liability for tax on
a joint return if (a) there is an understatement of tax because your spouse
omitted income or claimed false deductions or credits; (b) you are divorced,
separated, or no longer living with your
spouse; or (c) given all the facts and circumstances, it wouldn't be fair to hold
you liable for the tax. You may also
qualify for relief if you were a married
resident of a community property state
but didn't file a joint return and are now
liable for an unpaid or understated tax.
File Form 8857 to request relief. In
some cases, Form 8857 may need to be
filed within 2 years of the date on which
the IRS first attempted to collect the tax
from you. Don’t file Form 8857 with
your Form 1040 or 1040-SR. For more
information, see Pub. 971 and Form
8857, or you can call the Innocent
Spouse office toll free at 855-851-2009.

Income Tax Withholding
and Estimated Tax
Payments for 2023

If your SSN has been lost or stolen or
you suspect you are a victim of tax-related identity theft, visit IRS.gov/
IdentityTheft to learn what steps you
should take.

You can use the Tax
TIP Withholding Estimator instead
of Pub. 505 or the worksheets
included with Form W-4 or W-4P to determine whether you need to have your
withholding increased or decreased.

Victims of identity theft who are experiencing economic harm or a systemic
problem, or are seeking help in resolving tax problems that haven't been resolved through normal channels, may be
eligible for Taxpayer Advocate Service
(TAS) assistance. You can reach TAS
by calling the National Taxpayer Advocate helpline at 877-777-4778. People
who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a
speech disability and who have access to
TTY/TDD
equipment
can
call
800-829-4059. Deaf or hard-of-hearing
individuals can also contact the IRS
through Telecommunications Relay
Services at FCC.gov/TRS.
Protect yourself from suspicious
emails or phishing schemes. Phishing
is the creation and use of email and websites designed to mimic legitimate business emails and websites. The most
common form is sending an email to a
user falsely claiming to be an established legitimate enterprise in an attempt to
scam the user into surrendering private
information that will be used for identity
theft.

In general, you don’t have to make
estimated tax payments if you expect
that your 2023 Form 1040 or 1040-SR
will show a tax refund or a tax balance
due of less than $1,000. If your total estimated tax for 2023 is $1,000 or more,
see Form 1040-ES and Pub. 505 for a
worksheet you can use to see if you have
to make estimated tax payments. For
more details, see Pub. 505.

Secure Your Tax
Records From Identity
Theft
All taxpayers can now apply

TIP for an Identity Protection PIN
(IP PIN). Use the Get An IP
PIN tool on IRS.gov to request an IP
PIN, file Form 15227 if your income is
$73,000 ($146,000 if married filing
jointly) or less, or make an appointment
to visit a Taxpayer Assistance Center.
Identity theft occurs when someone
uses your personal information, such as
your name, social security number
(SSN), or other identifying information,
without your permission to commit
fraud or other crimes. An identity thief
may use your SSN to get a job or may
file a tax return using your SSN to receive a refund.
To reduce your risk:
• Protect your SSN,
• Ensure your employer is protecting
your SSN, and
• Be careful when choosing a tax return preparer.
If your tax records are affected by
identity theft and you receive a notice
from the IRS, respond right away to the
name and phone number printed on the
IRS notice or letter. For more information, see Pub. 5027.

The IRS doesn't initiate contact with
taxpayers via emails. Also, the IRS
doesn't request detailed personal information through email or ask taxpayers
for the PIN numbers, passwords, or similar secret access information for their
credit card, bank, or other financial accounts.
If you receive an unsolicited email
claiming to be from the IRS, forward the
message to phishing@irs.gov. You may
also report misuse of the IRS name,
logo, forms, or other IRS property to the
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration toll free at 800-366-4484.
People who are deaf, hard of hearing, or
have a speech disability and who have
access to TTY/TDD equipment can call
800-877-8339. You can forward suspicious emails to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) at spam@uce.gov or report them at ftc.gov/complaint. You can
contact them at www.ftc.gov/idtheft or
877-IDTHEFT (877-438-4338). If you
have been the victim of identity theft,
see www.IdentityTheft.gov and Pub.

-77-

5027. People who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech disability and who
have access to TTY/TDD equipment can
call 866-653-4261.
Visit IRS.gov and enter “identity
theft” in the search box to learn more
about identity theft and how to reduce
your risk.

How Do You Make a Gift
To Reduce Debt Held By
the Public?
If you wish to do so, make a check payable to “Bureau of the Fiscal Service.”
You can send it to: Bureau of the Fiscal
Service, Attn: Dept G, P.O. Box 2188,
Parkersburg, WV 26106-2188. Or you
can enclose the check with your income
tax return when you file. In the memo
section of the check, make a note that it
is a gift to reduce the debt held by the
public. Don’t add your gift to any tax
you may owe. See the instructions for
line 37 for details on how to pay any tax
you owe. For information on how to
make this type of gift online, go to
TreasuryDirect.gov/Help-Center/PublicDebt-FAQs/#DebtFinance and click on
“How do you make a contribution to reduce the debt?”
You may be able to deduct this

TIP gift on your 2023 tax return.

How Long Should
Records Be Kept?
Keep a copy of your tax return, worksheets you used, and records of all items
appearing on it (such as Forms W-2 and
1099) until the statute of limitations runs
out for that return. Usually, this is 3
years from the date the return was due or
filed or 2 years from the date the tax was
paid, whichever is later. You should
keep some records longer. For example,
keep property records (including those
on your home) as long as they are needed to figure the basis of the original or
replacement property. For more details,
see chapter 1 of Pub. 17.

Amended Return
File Form 1040-X to change a return
you already filed. Generally, Form
1040-X must be filed within 3 years af-

ter the date the original return was filed
or within 2 years after the date the tax
was paid, whichever is later. But you
may have more time to file Form
1040-X if you live in a federally declared disaster area or you are physically
or mentally unable to manage your financial affairs. See Pub. 556 for details.
Use the Where's My Amended Return
application on IRS.gov to track the status of your amended return. It can take
up to 3 weeks from the date you mailed
it to show up in our system.

Need a Copy of Your
Tax Return Information?
Tax return transcripts are free and are
generally used to validate income and
tax filing status for mortgage applications, student and small business loan
applications, and during tax return preparation. To get a free transcript:
• Visit IRS.gov/Transcript,
• Use Form 4506-T or 4506T-EZ, or
• Call us at 800-908-9946.
If you need a copy of your actual tax
return, use Form 4506. There is a fee for
each return requested. See Form 4506
for the current fee. If your main home,
principal place of business, or tax records are located in a federally declared
disaster area, this fee will be waived.

Death of a Taxpayer
If a taxpayer died before filing a return
for 2022, the taxpayer's spouse or personal representative may have to file and
sign a return for that taxpayer. A personal representative can be an executor, administrator, or anyone who is in charge
of the deceased taxpayer's property. If
the deceased taxpayer didn't have to file
a return but had tax withheld, a return
must be filed to get a refund. The person
who files the return must enter “Deceased,” the deceased taxpayer's name,
and the date of death across the top of
the return. If this information isn't provided, it may delay the processing of the
return.
If your spouse died in 2022 and you
didn't remarry in 2022, or if your spouse
died in 2023 before filing a return for
2022, you can file a joint return. A joint
return should show your spouse's 2022
income before death and your income

for all of 2022. Enter “Filing as surviving spouse” in the area where you sign
the return. If someone else is the personal representative, they must also sign.
All payers of income, including financial institutions, should be promptly
notified of the taxpayer's death. This
will ensure the proper reporting of income earned by the taxpayer's estate or
heirs. A deceased taxpayer's social security number shouldn't be used for tax
years after the year of death, except for
estate tax return purposes.

Claiming a Refund for a
Deceased Taxpayer
If you are filing a joint return with your
deceased spouse, you only need to file
the tax return to claim the refund. If you
are a court-appointed representative, file
the return and include a copy of the certificate that shows your appointment. All
other filers requesting the deceased taxpayer's refund must file the return and
attach Form 1310.
For more details, use Tax Topic 356
or see Pub. 559.

Past Due Returns
If you or someone you know needs to
file past due tax returns, use Tax Topic
153 or go to IRS.gov/Individuals for
help in filing those returns. Send the return to the address that applies to you in
the latest Form 1040 and 1040-SR instructions. For example, if you are filing
a 2019 return in 2023, use the address at
the end of these instructions. However,
if you got an IRS notice, mail the return
to the address in the notice.

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue;
need help preparing your tax return; or
want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to
find resources that can help you right
away.
Preparing and filing your tax return.
After receiving all your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.);
unemployment compensation statements
(by mail or in a digital format) or other
government payment statements (Form
1099-G); and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from banks and in-

-78-

vestment firms (Form 1099), you have
several options to choose from to prepare and file your tax return. You can
prepare the return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a
tax professional to prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation. Go
to IRS.gov to see your options for preparing and filing your return online or in
your local community, if you qualify,
which include the following.
• Free File. This program lets you
prepare and file your federal individual
income tax return for free using
brand-name-tax preparation-and-filing
software or Free File fillable forms.
However, state tax preparation may not
be available through Free File. Go to
IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify
for free online federal tax preparation,
e-filing, and direct deposit or payment
options.
• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax
Assistance (VITA) program offers free
tax help to people with low-to-moderate
incomes, persons with disabilities, and
limited-English-speaking taxpayers who
need help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/VITA, download
the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free
tax return preparation.
• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the
Elderly (TCE) program offers free tax
help for all taxpayers, particularly those
who are 60 years of age and older. TCE
volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors. Go to
IRS.gov/TCE, download the free
IRS2Go app, or call 888-227-7669 for
information on free tax return preparation.
• MilTax. Members of the U.S.
Armed Forces and qualified veterans
may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense
through Military OneSource. For more
information, go to MilitaryOneSource
(MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable
Forms, which can be completed online
and then filed electronically regardless
of income.
Using online tools to help prepare
your return. Go to IRS.gov/Tools for
the following.

• The Earned Income Tax Credit
Assistant (IRS.gov/EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the EIC.
• The Online EIN Application
(IRS.gov/EIN) helps you get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
cost.
• The Tax Withholding Estimator
(IRS.gov/W4App) makes it easier for you
to estimate the federal income tax you
want your employer to withhold from
your paycheck. This is tax withholding.
See how your withholding affects your
refund, take-home pay, or tax due.
• The First-Time Homebuyer Credit
Account Look-up (IRS.gov/HomeBuyer)
tool provides information on your repayments and account balance.
• The Sales Tax Deduction
Calculator (IRS.gov/SalesTax) figures
the amount you can claim if you itemize
deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions.
On IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on current events and changes
in tax law.
• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to
help you get answers to some of the
most common tax questions.
• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax
Assistant, a tool that will ask you questions and, based on your input, provide
answers on a number of tax law topics.
• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publications. You will
find details on the most recent tax
changes and interactive links to help you
find answers to your questions.
• You may also be able to access tax
law information in your electronic filing
software.
Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled
agents, certified public accountants
(CPAs), accountants, any many others
who don’t have professional credentials.
If you choose to have someone prepare
your tax return, choose that preparer
wisely. A paid tax preparer is:
• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,
• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer
tax identification number (PTIN).
Although the tax preparer always
signs the return, you’re ultimately responsible for providing all the informa-

tion required for the preparer to accurately prepare your return. Anyone paid
to prepare tax returns for others should
have a thorough understanding of tax
matters. For more information on how to
choose a tax preparer, go to Tips for
Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.
Coronavirus. Go
to
IRS.gov/
Coronavirus for links to information on
the impact of the coronavirus, as well as
tax relief available for individuals and
families, small businesses, and tax-exempt organizations.
Employers can register to use Business Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online services at SSA.gov/employer for
fast, free, and secure online W-2 filing
options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled
agents, and individuals who process
Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement,
and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and
Tax Statement.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/
SocialMedia to see the various social
media tools the IRS uses to share the latest information on tax changes, scam
alerts, initiatives, products, and services.
At the IRS, privacy and security are our
highest priority. We use these tools to
share public information with you.
Don’t post your social security number
(SSN) or other confidential information
on social media sites. Always protect
your identity when using any social networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos
on various tax-related topics in English,
Spanish, and ASL.
• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Watching IRS videos. The IRS Video
portal (IRSvideos.gov) contains video
and audio presentations for individuals,
small businesses, and tax professionals.
Online tax information in other languages. You can find information on
IRS.gov/MyLanguage if English isn’t
your native language.
Free Over-the-Phone Interpreter
(OPI) Service. The IRS is committed to
serving our multilingual customers by
offering OPI services. The OPI Service
is a federally funded program and is
available at Taxpayer Assistance Cen-

-79-

ters (TACs), other IRS offices, and every VITA/TCE return site. The OPI
Service is accessible in more than 350
languages.
Accessibility Helpline available for
taxpayers with disabilities. Taxpayers
who need information about accessibility services can call 833-690-0598. The
Accessibility Helpline can answer questions related to current and future accessibility products and services available
in alternative media formats (for example, braille, large print, audio, etc.). The
Accessibility Helpline does not have access to your IRS account. For help with
tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp.
Note. Form 9000, Alternative Media
Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows
you to elect to receive certain types of
written correspondence in the following
formats.
• Standard Print.
• Large Print.
• Braille.
• Audio (MP3).
• Plain Text File (TXT).
• Braille Ready File (BRF).
Disasters. Go to Disaster Assistance
and Emergency Relief for Individuals
and Businesses to review the available
disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/Forms to view, download, or print all the forms, instructions,
and publications you may need. Or, you
can to go IRS.gov/OrderForms to place
an order.
Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook format. You can also
download and view popular tax publications and instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
Note. IRS eBooks have been tested
using Apple’s iBooks for iPad. Our
eBooks haven’t been tested on other
dedicated eBook readers, and eBook
functionality may not operate as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers only). Go to IRS.gov/
Account to securely access information
about your federal tax account.
• View the amount you owe and a
breakdown by tax year.

• See payment plan details or apply
for a new payment plan.
• Make a payment or view 5 years of
payment history and any pending or
scheduled payments.
• Access your tax records, including
key data from your most recent tax return, and transcripts.
• View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests from tax professionals.
• View your address on file or manage your communication preferences.
Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your
tax professional submit an authorization
request to access your individual taxpayer IRS online account. For more information, go to IRS.gov/TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit. The fastest way
to receive a tax refund is to file electronically and choose direct deposit, which
securely and electronically transfers
your refund directly into your financial
account. Direct deposit also avoids the
possibility that your check could be lost,
stolen, destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in 10 taxpayers
use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If you don’t have a bank account,
go to IRS.gov.DirectDeposit for more
information on where to find a bank or
credit union that can open an account
online.
Getting a transcript of your return.
The quickest way to get a copy of your
tax transcript is to go to IRS.gov/
Transcripts. Click on either “Get Transcript Online” or “Get Transcript by
Mail” to order a free copy of your transcript. If you prefer, you can order your
transcript by calling 800-908-9946.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity theft issues.
• Tax-related identity theft happens
when someone steals your personal information to commit tax fraud. Your
taxes can be affected if your SSN is used
to file a fraudulent return or to claim a
refund or credit.
• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact
with taxpayers by email, text messages
(including shortened links), telephone
calls, or social media channels to request
or verify personal or financial information. This includes requests for personal
identification numbers (PINs), pass-

words, or similar information for credit
cards, banks, or other financial accounts.
• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the
IRS Identity Theft Central webpage, for
information on identity theft and data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN
has been lost or stolen or you suspect
you’re a victim of tax-related identity
theft, you can learn what steps you
should take.
• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP
PIN). IP PINs are six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the
misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have
an IP PIN, it prevents someone else
from filing a tax return with your SSN.
To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.
Ways to check on the status of your
refund.
• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app
to your mobile device to check your refund status.
• Call the automated refund hotline
at 800-829-1954. See Refund Information, later.
Making a tax payment. Go to IRS.gov/
Payments for information on how to
make a payment using any of the following options.
• IRS Direct Pay: Pay your individual tax bill or estimated tax payment directly from your checking or savings account at no cost to you.
• Debit or Credit Card: Choose an
approved payment processor to pay online or by phone.
• Electronic Funds Withdrawal:
Schedule a payment when filing your
federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.
• Electronic Federal Tax Payment
System: Best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.
• Check or Money Order: Mail your
payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.
• Cash: You may be able to pay
your taxes with cash at a participating
retail store.
• Same-Day Wire: You may be able
to do same-day wire from your financial
institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and time
frames.

-80-

Note. The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by
phone, or from a mobile device using
the IRS2Go app are safe and secure.
Paying electronically is quick, easy, and
faster than mailing in a check or money
order.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to
IRS.gov/Payments for more information
about your options.
• Apply for an online payment
agreement (IRS.gov/OPA) to meet your
tax obligation in monthly installments if
you can't pay your taxes in full today.
Once you complete the online process,
you will receive immediate notification
of whether your agreement has been approved.
• Use the Offer in Compromise PreQualifier to see if you can settle your tax
debt for less than the full amount you
owe. For more information on the Offer
in Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/
OIC.
Filing an amended return. Go to
IRS.gov/Form1040X for information and
updates.
Checking the status of your amended
return. Go to IRS.gov/WMAR to track
the status of Form 1040-X amended returns. Note it can take up to 3 weeks
from the date you filed your amended
return for it to show up in our system,
and processing it can take up to 16
weeks.
Understanding an IRS notice or letter
you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices
to find additional information about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
Note. You can use Schedule LEP
(Form 1040), Request for Change in
Language Preference, to state a preference to receive notices, letters, or other
written communications from the IRS in
an alternative language. You may not
immediately receive written communications in the requested language. The
IRS’s commitment to LEP taxpayers is
part of a multi-year timeline that is
scheduled to begin providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive communications, including notices
and letters in English, until they are
translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local IRS office.
Keep in mind, many questions can be

answered on IRS.gov without visiting an
IRS TAC. Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for
the topics people ask about most. If you
still need help, IRS TACs provide tax
help when a tax issue can’t be handled
online or by phone. All TACs now provide service by appointment, so you’ll
know in advance that you can get the
service you need without long wait
times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/
TACLocator to find the nearest TAC and
to check hours, available services, and
appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go
app, under the Stay Connected tab,
choose the Contact Us option and click
on “Local Offices.”

Interest and Penalties
You don’t have to figure the amount of
any interest or penalties you may owe.
We will send you a bill for any amount
due.
If you choose to include interest or
penalties (other than the estimated tax
penalty) with your payment, identify and
enter the amount in the bottom margin
of Form 1040 or 1040-SR, page 2. Don’t
include interest or penalties (other than
the estimated tax penalty) in the amount
you owe on line 37. For more information on the estimated tax penalty, see
Line 38, earlier.

Interest
We will charge you interest on taxes not
paid by their due date, even if an extension of time to file is granted. We will
also charge you interest on penalties imposed for failure to file, negligence,
fraud, substantial or gross valuation misstatements, substantial understatements
of tax, and reportable transaction understatements. Interest is charged on the
penalty from the due date of the return
(including extensions).

Penalties
Late filing. If you don’t file your return
by the due date (including extensions),
the penalty is usually 5% of the amount
due for each month or part of a month
your return is late, unless you have a
reasonable explanation. If you have a
reasonable explanation for filing late, include it with your return. The penalty
can be as much as 25% of the tax due.
The penalty is 15% per month, up to a
maximum of 75%, if the failure to file is
fraudulent. If your return is more than
60 days late, the minimum penalty will
be $450 or the amount of any tax you
owe, whichever is smaller.
Late payment of tax. If you pay your
taxes late, the penalty is usually 1/2 of
1% of the unpaid amount for each

-81-

month or part of a month the tax isn't
paid. The penalty can be as much as
25% of the unpaid amount. It applies to
any unpaid tax on the return. This penalty is in addition to interest charges on
late payments.
Frivolous return. In addition to any
other penalties, the law imposes a penalty of $5,000 for filing a frivolous return.
A frivolous return is one that doesn't
contain information needed to figure the
correct tax or shows a substantially incorrect tax because you take a frivolous
position or desire to delay or interfere
with the tax laws. This includes altering
or striking out the preprinted language
above the space where you sign. For a
list of positions identified as frivolous,
see Notice 2010-33, 2010-17 I.R.B. 609,
available
at
IRS.gov/irb/
2010-17_IRB#NOT-2010-33.
Other. Other penalties can be imposed
for, among other things, negligence,
substantial understatement of tax, reportable transaction understatements, filing an erroneous refund claim, and
fraud. Criminal penalties may be imposed for willful failure to file, tax evasion, making a false statement, or identity theft. See Pub. 17 for details on some
of these penalties.

Refund Information
To check the status
of your refund, go
to IRS.gov/Refunds
or use the free IRS2Go app, 24 hours a
day, 7 days a week. Information about
your refund will generally be available
within 24 hours after the IRS receives
your e-filed return or 4 weeks after you
mail a paper return. But if you filed
Form 8379 with your return, allow 14
weeks (11 weeks if you filed electronically) before checking your refund status.
The IRS can’t issue refunds before
mid-February 2023 for returns that
claim the earned income credit or the
additional child tax credit. This delay
applies to the entire refund, not just the
portion associated with these credits.
To use Where's My Refund,
have a copy of your tax return
handy. You will need to enter
the following information from your return:

• Your social security number (or individual taxpayer identification number),
• Your filing status, and
• The exact whole dollar amount of
your refund.

Where's My Refund will provide an
actual personalized refund date as soon
as the IRS processes your tax return and
approves your refund.
Updates to refund status are

TIP made once a day—usually at
night.
If you don’t have Internet access,
you
can
call
800-829-1954, 24 hours a day,
7 days a week, for automated refund information. Our phone and walk-in assistors can research the status of your refund only if it's been 21 days or more
since you filed electronically or more
than 6 weeks since you mailed your paper return.
Don’t send in a copy of your return
unless asked to do so.
To get a refund, you must generally
file your return within 3 years from the
date the return was due (including extensions).
Where's My Refund doesn't track refunds that are claimed on an amended
tax return.

-82-

Refund information is also available
in Spanish at IRS.gov/Spanish and
800-829-1954.

Instructions for Schedule 1
Additional Income and Adjustments to Income
General Instructions
Use Schedule 1 to report income or adjustments to income that can’t be entered directly on Form 1040, 1040-SR,
or 1040-NR.
Additional income is entered on
Schedule 1, Part I. The amount on
line 10 of Schedule 1 is entered on Form
1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 8.
Adjustments to income are entered on
Schedule 1, Part II. The amount on
line 26 is entered on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 10; or 1040-NR, line 10a.

Additional Income
Line 1
Taxable Refunds, Credits, or
Offsets of State and Local
Income Taxes
None of your refund is taxable

TIP if, in the year you paid the tax,
you either (a) didn't itemize deductions, or (b) elected to deduct state
and local general sales taxes instead of
state and local income taxes.
If you received a refund, credit, or
offset of state or local income taxes in
2022, you may be required to report this
amount. If you didn't receive a Form
1099-G, check with the government
agency that made the payments to you.
Your 2022 Form 1099-G may have been
made available to you only in an electronic format, and you will need to get
instructions from the agency to retrieve
this document. Report any taxable refund you received even if you didn't receive Form 1099-G.
If you chose to apply part or all of the
refund to your 2022 estimated state or
local income tax, the amount applied is
treated as received in 2022. If the refund
was for a tax you paid in 2021 and you

deducted state and local income taxes on
your 2021 Schedule A, use the State and
Local Income Tax Refund Worksheet in
these instructions to see if any of your
refund is taxable.
Exception. See Itemized Deduction Recoveries in Pub. 525 instead of using the
State and Local Income Tax Refund
Worksheet in these instructions if any of
the following applies.
1. You received a refund in 2022
that is for a tax year other than 2021.
2. You received a refund other than
an income tax refund, such as a general
sales tax or real property tax refund, in
2022 of an amount deducted or credit
claimed in an earlier year.
3. You had taxable income on your
2021 Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 15,
but no tax on your Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 16, because of the 0% tax
rate on net capital gain and qualified
dividends in certain situations.
4. Your 2021 state and local income
tax refund is more than your 2021 state
and local income tax deduction minus
the amount you could have deducted as
your 2021 state and local general sales
taxes.
5. You made your last payment of
2021 estimated state or local income tax
in 2022.
6. You owed alternative minimum
tax in 2021.
7. You couldn't use the full amount
of credits you were entitled to in 2021
because the total credits were more than
the amount shown on your 2021 Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 16.
8. You could be claimed as a dependent by someone else in 2021.
9. You received a refund because of
a jointly filed state or local income tax
return, but you aren't filing a joint 2022
Form 1040 or 1040-SR with the same
person.

-83-

Lines 2a and 2b
Alimony Received
Line 2a
Enter amounts received as alimony or
separate maintenance pursuant to a divorce or separation agreement entered
into on or before December 31, 2018,
unless that agreement was changed after
December 31, 2018, to expressly provide that alimony received isn't included
in your income. Alimony received is not
included in your income if you entered
into a divorce or separation agreement
after December 31, 2018. If you are including alimony in your income, you
must let the person who made the payments know your social security number. If you don’t, you may have to pay a
penalty. For more details, see Pub. 504.
If you are including alimony payments from more than one divorce or
separation agreement in your income,
enter the total of all alimony received on
line 2a.
Line 2b
On line 2b, enter the month and year of
your original divorce or separation
agreement that relates to the alimony
payment, if any, reported on line 2a.
If you have alimony payments from
more than one divorce or separation
agreement, on line 2b enter the month
and year of the divorce or separation
agreement for which you received the
most income. Attach a statement listing
the month and year of the other agreements.

Line 3
Business Income or (Loss)
If you operated a business or practiced
your profession as a sole proprietor, report your income and expenses on
Schedule C.

State and Local Income Tax Refund Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 1
Before you begin:
1.
2.

3.

Be sure you have read the Exception in the instructions for this line to see if you can use this worksheet instead of
Pub. 525 to figure if any of your refund is taxable.

Enter the income tax refund from Form(s) 1099-G (or similar statement). But don’t enter more than the amount
of your state and local income taxes shown on your 2021 Schedule A, line 5d . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Is the amount of state and local income taxes (or general sales taxes), real estate taxes, and personal property
taxes paid in 2021 (generally, this is the amount reported on your 2021 Schedule A, line 5d), more than the
amount on your 2021 Schedule A, line 5e?
No. Enter the amount from line 1 on line 3 and go to line 4.
Yes. Subtract the amount on your 2021 Schedule A, line 5e,
from the amount of state and local income taxes (or
general sales taxes), real estate taxes, and personal
property taxes paid in 2021 (generally, this is the amount
reported on your 2021 Schedule A, line 5d).
Is the amount on line 1 more than the amount on line 2?
No.

STOP

2.

None of your refund is taxable.

Yes. Subtract line 2 from line 1.
4.

1.

3.

Enter your total itemized deductions from your 2021 Schedule A, line 17.

4.

Note. If the filing status on your 2021 Form 1040 or 1040-SR was married filing separately and
your spouse itemized deductions in 2021, skip lines 5 through 7, enter the amount from line 4
on line 8, and go to line 9.
5.

Enter the amount shown below for the filing status claimed on your
2021 Form 1040 or 1040-SR.

• Single or married filing separately—$12,550
• Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse—$25,100
• Head of household—$18,800
6.

5.

Check any boxes that apply.*
You were born before January 2, 1957.

You are blind.

Spouse was born before January 2, 1957.

Spouse is blind.

No boxes checked. Enter -0-.
Multiply the number of boxes checked by $1,350 ($1,700
if your 2021 filing status was single or head of household).

6.

*If your filing status is married filing separately, you can check the boxes for your spouse only
if your spouse had no income, isn't filing a return, and can't be claimed as a dependent on
another person's return.
7.

Add lines 5 and 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

8.

Is the amount on line 7 less than the amount on line 4?
No.

9.

STOP

None of your refund is taxable.

Yes. Subtract line 7 from line 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

Taxable part of your refund. Enter the smaller of line 3 or line 8 here and on Schedule 1, line 1 . . . . . . . . . . .

9.

-84-

Line 4
Other Gains or (Losses)
If you sold or exchanged assets used in a
trade or business, see the Instructions for
Form 4797.

Line 7
Unemployment Compensation
You should receive a Form 1099-G
showing in box 1 the total unemployment compensation paid to you in 2022.
Report this amount on line 7.
If the amount reported in box 1
of your Form(s) 1099-G is inCAUTION correct, report on line 7 only
the actual amount of unemployment
compensation paid to you in 2022.

!

If you made contributions to a governmental unemployment compensation
program or to a governmental paid family leave program and you aren't itemizing deductions, reduce the amount you
report on line 7 by those contributions.
If you are itemizing deductions, see the
instructions on Form 1099-G.
If you received an overpayment of
unemployment compensation in 2022
and you repaid any of it in 2022, subtract the amount you repaid from the total amount you received. Enter the result
on line 7. Also enter “Repaid” and the
amount you repaid on the dotted line
next to line 7. If, in 2022, you repaid
more than $3,000 of unemployment
compensation that you included in gross
income in an earlier year, see Repayments in Pub. 525 for details on how to
report the payment.

have any business expenses. Also don’t
report on lines 8a through 8z any nonemployee compensation shown on Form
1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, or 1099-K (unless it isn't self-employment income,
such as income from a hobby or a
sporadic activity). Instead, see the Instructions for Recipient included on
Form 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, or
1099-K to find out where to report that
income. For more information about
what is being reported on Form 1099-K,
see the Instructions for Payee included
on that form and visit IRS.gov/Gig.

Net operating loss (NOL) deduction.
Enter on line 8a any NOL deduction
from an earlier year. Enter the amount in
the preprinted parentheses (as a negative
number). The amount of your deduction
will be subtracted from the other
amounts of income listed on lines 8b
through 8z. See Pub. 536 for details.
Line 8b
Gambling. Enter on line 8b any gambling winnings. Gambling winnings include lotteries, raffles, a lump-sum payment from the sale of a right to receive
future lottery payments, etc. For details
on gambling losses, see the instructions
for Schedule A, line 16.
Attach Form(s) W-2G to Form

TIP 1040 or 1040-SR if any federal
income tax was withheld.
Line 8c
Cancellation of debt. Enter on line 8c
any canceled debt. Canceled debt may
be shown in box 2 of Form 1099-C.
However, part or all of your income
from cancellation of debt may be nontaxable. See Pub. 4681 or go to IRS.gov
and enter “canceled debt” or “foreclosure” in the search box.

Lines 8a Through 8z

Line 8d

Do not report on lines 8a
through 8z any income from
CAUTION self-employment
or fees received as a notary public. Instead, you
must use Schedule C, even if you don’t

!

Line 8e
Income from Form 8853. Enter on
line 8e the total of the amounts from
Form 8853, lines 8, 12, and 26. See Pub.
969.
You may have to pay an additional tax if you received a taxCAUTION able distribution from an Archer MSA or Medicare Advantage MSA.
See the Instructions for Form 8853.

!

Line 8a

If you received unemployment
TIP compensation in 2022, your
state may issue an electronic
Form 1099-G instead of it being mailed
to you. Check your state's unemployment
compensation website for more information.

Other Income

number). The amount from Form 2555,
line 45, will be subtracted from the other
amounts of income listed on lines 8a
through 8c and lines 8e through 8z.
Complete the Foreign Earned Income
Tax Worksheet if you enter an amount
on Form 2555, line 45.

Foreign earned income exclusion and
housing exclusion from Form 2555.
Enter the amount of your foreign earned
income and housing exclusion from
Form 2555, line 45. Enter the amount in
the preprinted parentheses (as a negative

-85-

Line 8f
Income from Form 8889. Enter on
line 8f the total of the amounts from
Form 8889, lines 16 and 20.
You may have to pay an additional tax if you received a taxCAUTION able distribution from a health
savings account. See the Instructions for
Form 8889.

!

Line 8h
Jury duty pay. Also see the instructions for line 24a.
Line 8i
Prizes and awards. Enter prizes and
awards but see the instructions for
line 8m, Olympic and Paralympic medals and USOC prize money, later.
Line 8j
Activity not engaged in for profit income. See Pub. 535.
Line 8k
Stock options. Enter on line 8k any income from the exercise of stock options
not otherwise reported on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 1h.
Line 8l
Income from the rental of personal
property if you engaged in the rental

for profit but were not in the business
of renting such property. Also see the
instructions for line 24b, later.
Line 8m
Olympic and Paralympic medals and
USOC prize money. The value of
Olympic and Paralympic medals and the
amount of United States Olympic Committee (USOC) prize money you receive
on account of your participation in the
Olympic or Paralympic Games may be
nontaxable. These amounts should be reported to you in box 3 of Form
1099-MISC. To see if these amounts are
nontaxable, first figure your adjusted
gross income, including the amount of
your medals and prize money.
If your adjusted gross income is not
more than $1,000,000 ($500,000 if married filing separately), these amounts are
nontaxable and you should include the
amount in box 3 of Form 1099-MISC on
line 8m, then subtract it by including it
on line 24c.
Line 8n
Section 951(a) inclusion. Section 951
generally requires that a U.S. shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation include in income its pro rata share of the
corporation's subpart F income and its
amount determined under section 956.
Enter on line 8n from your Forms 5471
the sum of any amounts reported on
Schedule I, lines 1a through h and line 2.
Remember to attach copies of your
Forms 5471 to your return.
Line 8o
Section 951A(a) inclusion. Section
951A generally requires that a U.S.
shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation include in income its global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI). Enter on line 8o from your Forms 8992 the
sum of any amounts reported on Part II,
line 5. Remember to attach copies of
your Forms 8992.

If you made a section 962 election and have an income incluCAUTION sion
under section 951 or
951A, do not report that income on
line 8n or 8o, as applicable. Instead, report the tax with respect to the section
962 election on Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 16, and attach a statement showing
how you figured the tax that includes the
gross amounts of section 951 and section 951A income.

!

Line 8p
461(l) excess business loss adjustment.
Enter the amount of your excess business loss from Form 461, line 16.
Line 8q
Taxable distributions from an ABLE
account. Distributions from this type of
account may be taxable if (a) they are
more than the designated beneficiary's
qualified disability expenses, and (b)
they were not included in a qualified
rollover. See Pub. 907 for more information.
You may have to pay an additional tax if you received a taxCAUTION able distribution from an ABLE
account. See the Instructions for Form
5329.

!

Line 8r
Scholarship and fellowship grants not
reported on Form W-2. Enter the
amount of scholarship and fellowship
grants not reported on Form W-2. However, if you were a degree candidate, include on line 8r only the amounts you
used for expenses other than tuition and
course-related expenses. For example,
amounts used for room, board, and travel must be reported on line 8r.

ble payments, or you received nontaxable payments that you didn’t report on
line 1a, and choose to include nontaxable amounts in earned income for purposes of claiming a credit or other tax benefit, report the amount on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 1d. Then, on line 8s enter
the total amount of the nontaxable payments reported on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 1a or 1d, in the entry
space in the preprinted parentheses (as a
negative number). For more information
about these payments, see Pub. 525.
Line 8t
Pension or annuity from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan or a
nongovernmental section 457 plan.
Enter the amount that you received as a
pension or annuity from a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan or a nongovernmental 457 plan. This may be
shown in box 11 of Form W-2. If you
received such an amount but box 11 is
blank, contact your employer or the payer for the amount received.
Line 8u
Wages earned while incarcerated. Enter the amount that you received for
services performed while an inmate in a
penal institution. You may receive
Form(s) W-2 or Form(s) 1099.
Line 8z
Other income. Use line 8z to report
any taxable income not reported elsewhere on your return or other schedules.
List the type and amount of income. If
necessary, include a statement showing
the required information. For more details, see Miscellaneous Income in Pub.
525.
If you received a Form 1099-K

TIP for a personal item that you

Line 8s
Nontaxable amount of Medicaid waiver payments included on Form 1040,
line 1a or 1d. Certain Medicaid waiver
payments you received for caring for
someone living in your home with you
may be nontaxable. If nontaxable payments were reported to you in box 1 of
Form(s) W-2, report the amount on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1a. If you
did not receive a Form W-2 for nontaxa-

-86-

sold at a gain, don’t report this
amount on line 8z, instead report it as
you would report any other capital gain
on Form 8949 and Schedule D.
Examples of income to report on
line 8z include the following.
• Reimbursements or other amounts
received for items deducted in an earlier
year, such as medical expenses, real estate taxes, general sales taxes, or home
mortgage interest. See Recoveries in

Pub. 525 for details on how to figure the
amount to report.
• Reemployment trade adjustment
assistance (RTAA) payments. These
payments should be shown in box 5 of
Form 1099-G.
• Loss on certain corrective distributions of excess deferrals. See Retirement
Plan Contributions in Pub. 525.
• Dividends on insurance policies if
they exceed the total of all net premiums
you paid for the contract.
• Recapture of a charitable contribution deduction relating to the contribution of a fractional interest in tangible
personal property. See Fractional Interest in Tangible Personal Property in
Pub. 526. Interest and an additional 10%
tax apply to the amount of the recapture.
See the instructions for Schedule 2,
line 17g.
• Recapture of a charitable contribution deduction if the charitable organization disposes of the donated property
within 3 years of the contribution. See
Recapture if no exempt use in Pub. 526.
• Taxable part of disaster relief payments. See Pub. 525 to figure the taxable part, if any. If any of your disaster
relief payment is taxable, attach a statement showing the total payment received and how you figured the taxable
part.
• Taxable distributions from a Coverdell education savings account (ESA)
or a qualified tuition program (QTP).
Distributions from these accounts may
be taxable if (a) in the case of distributions from a QTP, they are more than
the qualified higher education expenses
of the designated beneficiary in 2022 or,
in the case of distributions from an ESA,
they are more than the qualified education expenses of the designated beneficiary in 2022; and (b) they were not included in a qualified rollover. Nontaxable distributions from these accounts
don’t have to be reported on Form 1040
or 1040-SR. This includes rollovers and
qualified higher education expenses refunded to a student from a QTP that
were recontributed to a QTP with the
same designated beneficiary generally
within 60 days after the date of refund.
See Pub. 970.

You may have to pay an additional tax if you received a taxCAUTION able distribution from a Coverdell ESA or a QTP. See the Instructions
for Form 5329.

!

Nontaxable income. Don’t report any
nontaxable income on line 8z. Examples
of nontaxable income include the following.
• Child support.
• Payments you received to help you
pay your mortgage loan under the HFA
Hardest Hit Fund or the Homeowner Assistance Fund.
• Any Pay-for-Performance Success
Payments that reduce the principal balance of your home mortgage under the
Home Affordable Modification Program.
• Life insurance proceeds received
because of someone's death (other than
from certain employer-owned life insurance contracts).
• Gifts and bequests. However, if
you received a gift or bequest from a
foreign person (including amounts from
foreign corporations and foreign partnerships that you treated as gifts) totaling
more than $17,339, you may have to report information about it on Form 3520,
Part IV. See the Instructions for Form
3520.
Form 1099-K loss reporting. If you
sold a personal item at a loss, either report the loss on Form 8949 or report it
on line 8z. If you report the loss on
line 8z, enter the amount of the sale proceeds from Form 1099-K on line 8z. In
the entry space next to line 8z write
“Form 1099-K Personal Item Sold at a
Loss” and also enter the amount of the
sale proceeds. For example, you bought
a couch for $1,000 and sold it through a
third-party vendor for $700, which was
reported on your Form 1099-K. In the
entry space next to line 8z you would
write “Form 1099-K Personal Item Sold
at a Loss - $700.” See the instructions
for line 24z.
If you sold more than one per-

TIP sonal item at a loss or received
more than one Form 1099-K
for personal items you sold at a loss, in
the entry space next to line 8z write
“Form(s) 1099-K Personal Items Sold
at a Loss” and enter the total amount of
the sale proceeds on line 8z.

-87-

Incorrect Form 1099-K. If you received a Form 1099-K that shows payments you didn’t receive or is otherwise
incorrect and you can’t get it corrected,
enter the amount from Form 1099-K that
was incorrectly reported to you on
line 8z. In the entry space next to line 8z
write “Incorrect Form 1099-K” and also
enter the amount that was incorrectly reported to you. For example, if you received a Form 1099-K that incorrectly
showed $800 of payments to you, you
would enter $800 on line 8z and in the
entry space next to line 8z you would
write “Incorrect Form 1099-K - $800.”
See the instructions for line 24z.

Adjustments to
Income
Line 11
Educator Expenses
If you were an eligible educator in 2022,
you can deduct on line 11 up to $300 of
qualified expenses you paid in 2022. If
you and your spouse are filing jointly
and both of you were eligible educators,
the maximum deduction is $600. However, neither spouse can deduct more
than $300 of their qualified expenses on
line 11. An eligible educator is a kindergarten through grade 12 teacher, instructor, counselor, principal, or aide who
worked in a school for at least 900 hours
during a school year.
Qualified expenses include ordinary
and necessary expenses paid:
• For professional development
courses you have taken related to the
curriculum you teach or to the students
you teach; or
• In connection with books, supplies, equipment (including computer
equipment, software, and services), and
other materials used in the classroom.
An ordinary expense is one that is
common and accepted in your educational field. A necessary expense is one
that is helpful and appropriate for your
profession as an educator. An expense
doesn’t have to be required to be considered necessary.

Qualified

expenses

include

TIP amounts paid or incurred in
2022 for personal protective
equipment, disinfectant, and other supplies used for the prevention of the
spread of coronavirus.
Qualified expenses don’t include expenses for home schooling or for nonathletic supplies for courses in health or
physical education.
You must reduce your qualified expenses by the following amounts.
• Excludable U.S. series EE and I
savings bond interest from Form 8815.
• Nontaxable qualified tuition program earnings or distributions.
• Any nontaxable distribution of
Coverdell education savings account
earnings.
• Any reimbursements you received
for these expenses that weren’t reported
to you in box 1 of your Form W-2.
For more details, use Tax Topic 458
or see Pub. 529.

Line 12
Certain Business Expenses of
Reservists, Performing Artists,
and Fee-Basis Government
Officials
Include the following deductions on
line 12.
• Certain business expenses of National Guard and reserve members who
traveled more than 100 miles from home
to perform services as a National Guard
or reserve member.
• Performing-arts-related expenses
as a qualified performing artist.
• Business expenses of fee-basis
state or local government officials.
For more details, see Form 2106.

Line 13
Health Savings Account (HSA)
Deduction
You may be able to take this deduction
if contributions (other than employer
contributions, rollovers, and qualified
HSA funding distributions from an IRA)
were made to your HSA for 2022. See
Form 8889.

Line 14
Moving Expenses
You can deduct moving expenses if you
are a member of the Armed Forces on
active duty and due to a military order
you move because of a permanent
change of station. Use Tax Topic 455 or
see Form 3903.

Line 15
Deductible Part of
Self-Employment Tax
If you were self-employed and owe
self-employment tax, fill in Schedule SE
to figure the amount of your deduction.
The deductible part of your self-employment tax is on line 13 of Schedule SE.

Line 16
Self-Employed SEP, SIMPLE, and
Qualified Plans
If you were self-employed or a partner,
you may be able to take this deduction.
See Pub. 560 or, if you were a minister,
Pub. 517.

Line 17
Self-Employed Health Insurance
Deduction
You may be able to deduct the amount
you paid for health insurance for yourself, your spouse, and your dependents.
The insurance can also cover your child
who was under age 27 at the end of
2022, even if the child wasn't your dependent. A child includes your son,
daughter, stepchild, adopted child, or
foster child (defined in Who Qualifies as
Your Dependent in the Instructions for
Form 1040).
One of the following statements must
be true.
• You were self-employed and had a
net profit for the year reported on
Schedule C or F.
• You were a partner with net earnings from self-employment.
• You used one of the optional
methods to figure your net earnings
from self-employment on Schedule SE.
• You received wages in 2022 from
an S corporation in which you were a
more-than-2% shareholder. Health insurance premiums paid or reimbursed by

-88-

the S corporation are shown as wages on
Form W-2.
The insurance plan must be established under your business. Your personal
services must have been a material income-producing factor in the business.
If you are filing Schedule C or F, the
policy can be either in your name or in
the name of the business.
If you are a partner, the policy can be
either in your name or in the name of the
partnership. You can either pay the premiums yourself or your partnership can
pay them and report them as guaranteed
payments. If the policy is in your name
and you pay the premiums yourself, the
partnership must reimburse you and report the premiums as guaranteed payments.
If you are a more-than-2% shareholder in an S corporation, the policy can be
either in your name or in the name of the
S corporation. You can either pay the
premiums yourself or the S corporation
can pay them and report them as wages.
If the policy is in your name and you
pay the premiums yourself, the S corporation must reimburse you. You can deduct the premiums only if the S corporation reports the premiums paid or reimbursed as wages in box 1 of your Form
W-2 in 2022 and you also report the premium payments or reimbursements as
wages on Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 1a.
But if you were also eligible to participate in any subsidized health plan
maintained by your or your spouse's employer for any month or part of a month
in 2022, amounts paid for health insurance coverage for that month can't be
used to figure the deduction. Also, if
you were eligible for any month or part
of a month to participate in any subsidized health plan maintained by the employer of either your dependent or your
child who was under age 27 at the end
of 2022, don’t use amounts paid for coverage for that month to figure the deduction.
A qualified small employer
health reimbursement arrangeCAUTION ment (QSEHRA) is considered
to be a subsidized health plan maintained by an employer.

!

Example. If you were eligible to participate in a subsidized health plan main-

Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 17
Before you begin:

Be sure you have read the Exceptions in the instructions for this line to see if you can use this worksheet instead of Pub. 535 to figure your deduction.

1. Enter the total amount paid in 2022 for health insurance coverage established under your business
(or the S corporation in which you were a more-than-2% shareholder) for 2022 for you, your
spouse, and your dependents. Your insurance can also cover your child who was under age 27 at
the end of 2022, even if the child wasn't your dependent. But don’t include amounts for any month
you were eligible to participate in an employer-sponsored health plan or amounts paid from
retirement plan distributions that were nontaxable because you are a retired public safety
officer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Enter your net profit* and any other earned income** from the business under which the insurance
plan is established, minus any deductions on Schedule 1, lines 15 and 16. Don’t include
Conservation Reserve Program payments exempt from self-employment tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Self-employed health insurance deduction. Enter the smaller of line 1 or line 2 here and on
Schedule 1, line 17. Don’t include this amount in figuring any medical expense deduction
on Schedule A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2.

3.

*If you used either optional method to figure your net earnings from self-employment, don’t enter your net profit. Instead, enter the amount
from Schedule SE, line 4b.
**Earned income includes net earnings and gains from the sale, transfer, or licensing of property you created. However, it doesn't include
capital gain income. If you were a more-than-2% shareholder in the S corporation under which the insurance plan is established, earned
income is your Medicare wages (box 5 of Form W-2) from that corporation.

tained by your spouse's employer from
September 30 through December 31,
you can't use amounts paid for health insurance coverage for September through
December to figure your deduction.
Medicare premiums you voluntarily
pay to obtain insurance in your name
that is similar to qualifying private
health insurance can be used to figure
the deduction. Amounts paid for health
insurance coverage from retirement plan
distributions that were nontaxable because you are a retired public safety officer can't be used to figure the deduction.
For more details, see Pub. 535.
If you qualify to take the deduction,
use the Self-Employed Health Insurance
Deduction Worksheet to figure the
amount you can deduct.
Exceptions. Use Pub. 535 instead of
the Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction Worksheet in these instructions
to figure your deduction if any of the
following applies.
• You had more than one source of
income subject to self-employment tax.
• You file Form 2555.
• You are using amounts paid for
qualified long-term care insurance to
figure the deduction.

Use Pub. 974 instead of the worksheet in these instructions if the insurance plan was considered to be established under your business and was obtained through the Marketplace, and advance payments of the premium tax
credit were made or you are claiming
the premium tax credit.

Line 18
Penalty on Early Withdrawal of
Savings
The Form 1099-INT or Form 1099-OID
you received will show the amount of
any penalty you were charged.

Lines 19a, 19b, and 19c
Alimony Paid
Line 19a
If you made payments to or for your
spouse or former spouse under a divorce
or separation agreement entered into on
or before December 31, 2018, you may
be able to take this deduction. You can't
take a deduction for alimony payments
you made to or for your spouse if you
entered into your divorce or separation
agreement after December 31, 2018, or
if you entered into the agreement on or
before December 31, 2018, and the

-89-

agreement was changed after December
31, 2018, to expressly provide that alimony received is not included in your
former spouse's income. Use Tax Topic
452 or see Pub. 504.
Line 19c
On line 19c, enter the month and year of
your original divorce or separation
agreement that relates to this deduction
for alimony paid.

Line 20
IRA Deduction
If you made any nondeductible

TIP contributions to a traditional
individual retirement arrangement (IRA) for 2022, you must report
them on Form 8606.
You no longer need to be

TIP younger than age 701/2 to take
a deduction for your contributions to an IRA.
If you made contributions to a traditional IRA for 2022, you may be able to
take an IRA deduction. But you, or your
spouse if filing a joint return, must have
had earned income to do so. For IRA
purposes, earned income includes alimony and separate maintenance payments

reported on Schedule 1, line 2a. If you
were a member of the U.S. Armed
Forces, earned income includes any nontaxable combat pay you received. If you
were self-employed, earned income is
generally your net earnings from
self-employment if your personal services were a material income-producing
factor. For more details, see Pub. 590-A.
A statement should be sent to you by
May 31, 2023, that shows all contributions to your traditional IRA for 2022.
Use the IRA Deduction Worksheet to
figure the amount, if any, of your IRA
deduction. But read the following list
before you fill in the worksheet.
1. You can't deduct contributions to
a Roth IRA. But you may be able to take
the retirement savings contributions
credit (saver's credit). See the instructions for Schedule 3, line 4.
2. If you are filing a joint return and
you or your spouse made contributions
to both a traditional IRA and a Roth IRA
for 2022, don’t use the IRA Deduction
Worksheet in these instructions. Instead,
see Pub. 590-A to figure the amount, if
any, of your IRA deduction.
3. You can’t deduct elective deferrals to a 401(k) plan, 403(b) plan, section 457 plan, SIMPLE plan, or the federal Thrift Savings Plan. These amounts
aren't included as income in box 1 of
your Form W-2.
4. If you made contributions to your
IRA in 2022 that you deducted for 2021,
don’t include them in the worksheet.
5. If you received income from a
nonqualified deferred compensation
plan or nongovernmental section 457
plan that is included in box 1 of your

Form W-2, or in box 1 of Form
1099-NEC, don’t include that income on
line 8 of the worksheet. The income
should be shown in (a) box 11 of your
Form W-2, (b) box 12 of your Form
W-2 with code Z, or (c) box 15 of Form
1099-MISC. If it isn't, contact your employer or the payer for the amount of the
income.
6. You must file a joint return to deduct contributions to your spouse's IRA.
Enter the total IRA deduction for you
and your spouse on line 20.
7. Don’t include rollover contributions in figuring your deduction. Instead,
see the instructions for Form 1040 or
1040-SR, lines 4a and 4b.
8. Don't include trustees' fees that
were billed separately and paid by you
for your IRA.
9. Don’t include any repayments of
qualified reservist distributions. You
can't deduct them. For information on
how to report these repayments, see
Qualified reservist repayments in Pub.
590-A.
10. If the total of your IRA deduction
on line 20 plus any nondeductible contribution to your traditional IRAs shown
on Form 8606 is less than your total traditional IRA contributions for 2022, see
Pub. 590-A for special rules.
You must receive at least a

TIP minimum amount from your
traditional IRA for each year
starting with the year you reach age 72.
If you don't receive that minimum distribution amount in the year you become
age 72, you must receive that distribution by April 1 of the year following the
year you become age 72. If you don’t,

-90-

you may have to pay a 50% additional
tax on the amount that should have been
distributed. For details, including how
to figure the minimum required distribution, see Pub. 590-B.
Were You Covered by a Retirement
Plan?
If you were covered by a retirement plan
(qualified pension, profit-sharing (including 401(k)), annuity, SEP, SIMPLE,
etc.) at work or through self-employment, your IRA deduction may be reduced or eliminated. But you can still
make contributions to an IRA even if
you can't deduct them. In any case, the
income earned on your IRA contributions isn't taxed until it is paid to you.
The “Retirement plan” box in box 13
of your Form W-2 should be checked if
you were covered by a plan at work
even if you weren’t vested in the plan.
You are also covered by a plan if you
were self-employed and had a SEP,
SIMPLE, or qualified retirement plan.
If you were covered by a retirement
plan and you file Form 2555 or 8815, or
you exclude employer-provided adoption benefits, see Pub. 590-A to figure
the amount, if any, of your IRA deduction.
Married persons filing separately. If
you weren’t covered by a retirement
plan but your spouse was, you are considered covered by a plan unless you
lived apart from your spouse for all of
2022.
You may be able to take the re-

TIP tirement savings contributions
credit. See the Schedule 3,
line 4, instructions.

IRA Deduction Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 20
Before you begin:

1a.
b.

2.

3.
4.
5.
6.

Be sure you have read the the instructions for this line. You may not be able to use this worksheet.
Figure any write-in adjustments to be entered on Schedule 1, line 24z (see the instructions for Schedule 1,
line 24z).
If you are married filing separately and you lived apart from your spouse for all of 2022, enter “D” on the dotted
line next to Schedule 1, line 20. If you don’t, you may get a math error notice from the IRS.
Your IRA
Spouse's IRA
Were you covered by a retirement plan (see Were You Covered by a
Retirement Plan)? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1a.
Yes
No
If married filing jointly, was your spouse covered by a retirement plan? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1b.
Yes
No

Next. If you checked “No” on line 1a (and “No” on line 1b if married filing
jointly), skip lines 2 through 6, enter the applicable amount below on line 7a
(and line 7b, if applicable), and go to line 8.
• $6,000, if under age 50 at the end of 2022.
• $7,000, if age 50 or older at the end of 2022.
Otherwise, go to line 2.
Enter the amount shown below that applies to you.
• Single, head of household, or married filing separately and you
lived apart from your spouse for all of 2022, enter $78,000.
• Qualifying surviving spouse, enter $129,000.
• Married filing jointly, enter $129,000 in both columns. But if you checked
“No” on either line 1a or 1b, enter $214,000 for the person who wasn't
covered by a plan.
• Married filing separately and you lived with your spouse at any time in
2022, enter $10,000.
Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.
Enter the total of the amounts from Schedule 1,
lines 11 through 19a, plus 23 and 25 . . . . . . . . . . .
4.
Subtract line 4 from line 3. If married filing jointly, enter the result in both
columns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Is the amount on line 5 less than the amount on line 2?
None of your IRA contributions are deductible. For details on
No.
STOP
nondeductible IRA contributions, see Form 8606.
Yes.

Subtract line 5 from line 2 in each column. Follow the instruction
below that applies to you.
• If single, head of household, or married filing separately,
and the result is $10,000 or more, enter the applicable
amount below on line 7 for that column and go to line 8.
i. $6,000, if under age 50 at the end of 2022.
ii. $7,000, if age 50 or older at the end of 2022.
If the result is less than $10,000, go to line 7.
• If married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse,
and the result is $20,000 or more ($10,000 or more in the
column for the IRA of a person who wasn't covered by a
retirement plan), enter the applicable amount below on
line 7 for that column and go to line 8.
i. $6,000, if under age 50 at the end of 2022.
ii. $7,000, if age 50 or older at the end of 2022.
Otherwise, go to line 7.

-91-

2a.

2b.

5a.

5b.

6a.

6b.

IRA Deduction Worksheet—Continued
Your IRA
7.

8.

9.

10.

Multiply lines 6a and 6b by the percentage below that applies to you. If the
result isn't a multiple of $10, increase it to the next multiple of $10 (for
example, increase $490.30 to $500). If the result is $200 or more, enter the
result. But if it is less than $200, enter $200.
• Single, head of household, or married filing separately, multiply by 60%
(0.60) (or by 70% (0.70) in the column for the IRA of a person who is age
50 or older at the end of 2022).
• Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse, multiply by 30%
(0.30) (or by 35% (0.35) in the column for the IRA of a person who is age
50 or older at the end of 2022). But if you checked “No” on either line 1a
or 1b, then in the column for the IRA of the person who wasn't covered by a
retirement plan, multiply by 60% (0.60) (or by 70% (0.70) if age
50 or older at the end of 2022).
Enter the total of your (and your spouse's if filing
jointly):
• Wages, salaries, tips, etc. Generally, this is the
amount reported in box 1 of Form W-2. Exceptions
are explained earlier in these instructions for line 20.
8.
• Alimony and separate maintenance payments
reported on Schedule 1, line 2a.
• Nontaxable combat pay. This amount should be
reported in box 12 of Form W-2 with code Q or
reported on Form 1040, line 1i.
Enter the earned income you (and your spouse if
filing jointly) received as a self-employed individual
or a partner. Generally, this is your (and your
spouse's if filing jointly) net earnings from
self-employment if your personal services were a
material income-producing factor, minus any
deductions on Schedule 1, lines 15 and 16. If zero or
less, enter -0-. For more details, see Pub.
590-A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9.
Add lines 8 and 9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10.

!

CAUTION

11.
12.

7a.

Spouse's IRA

7b.

If married filing jointly and line 10 is less than $12,000 ($13,000 if
one spouse is age 50 or older at the end of 2022; $14,000 if both
spouses are age 50 or older at the end of 2022), stop here and use
the worksheet in Pub. 590-A to figure your IRA deduction.

Enter traditional IRA contributions made, or that will be made by the due date
of your 2022 return not counting extensions (April 18, 2023, for most people),
for 2022 to your IRA on line 11a and to your spouse's IRA on line 11b . . . . . . 11a.
On line 12a, enter the smallest of line 7a, 10, or 11a. On line 12b, enter the
smallest of line 7b, 10, or 11b. This is the most you can deduct. Add the
amounts on lines 12a and 12b and enter the total on Schedule 1, line 20. Or, if
you want, you can deduct a smaller amount and treat the rest as a
nondeductible contribution (see Form 8606) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12a.

Line 21
Student Loan Interest Deduction
You can take this deduction only if all of
the following apply.
• You paid interest in 2022 on a
qualified student loan (defined later).
• Your filing status is any status except married filing separately.
• Your modified adjusted gross income (AGI) is less than: $85,000 if single, head of household, or qualifying
surviving spouse; $175,000 if married
filing jointly. Use lines 2 through 4 of

the worksheet in these instructions to
figure your modified AGI.
• You, or your spouse if filing jointly, aren't claimed as a dependent on
someone else's (such as your parent's)
2022 tax return.
Don't include any amount paid from a
a distribution of earnings made from a
qualified tuition program (QTP) after
2018 to the extent the earnings are treated as tax free because they were used to
pay student loan interest.
Use the worksheet in these instructions to figure your student loan interest
deduction.

-92-

11b.

12b.

Exception. Use Pub. 970 instead of the
worksheet in these instructions to figure
your student loan interest deduction if
you file Form 2555 or 4563, or you exclude income from sources within Puerto Rico.
Qualified student loan. A qualified
student loan is any loan you took out to
pay the qualified higher education expenses for any of the following individuals who were eligible students.
1. Yourself or your spouse.
2. Any person who was your dependent when the loan was taken out.

Student Loan Interest Deduction Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 21
Before you begin:

Figure any write-in adjustments to be entered on Schedule 1, line 24z (see the instructions for Schedule 1,
line 24z).
Be sure you have read the Exception in the instructions for this line to see if you can use this worksheet
instead of Pub. 970 to figure your deduction.

1.

Enter the total interest you paid in 2022 on qualified student loans (see the instructions for line 21). Don’t
enter more than $2,500 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.

2.

Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.

3.

Enter the total of the amounts from Schedule 1, lines 11 through 20, and 23 and
25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.

4.

Subtract line 3 from line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.

5.

Enter the amount shown below for your filing status.
• Single, head of household, or qualifying
surviving spouse—$70,000
• Married filing jointly—$145,000

6.

...........

5.

Is the amount on line 4 more than the amount on line 5?
No. Skip lines 6 and 7, enter -0- on line 8, and go to line 9.
Yes. Subtract line 5 from line 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.

7.

Divide line 6 by $15,000 ($30,000 if married filing jointly). Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at
least three places). If the result is 1.000 or more, enter 1.000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

8.

Multiply line 1 by line 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.

9.

Student loan interest deduction. Subtract line 8 from line 1. Enter the result here and on Schedule 1,
line 21.
Don’t include this amount in figuring any other deduction on your return (such as on Schedule A, C,
E, etc.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.

3. Any person you could have
claimed as a dependent for the year the
loan was taken out except that:
a. The person filed a joint return;
b. The person had gross income that
was equal to or more than the exemption
amount for that year or $4,400 for 2022;
or
c. You, or your spouse if filing
jointly, could be claimed as a dependent
on someone else's return.
However, a loan isn't a qualified student loan if (a) any of the proceeds were
used for other purposes, or (b) the loan
was from either a related person or a
person who borrowed the proceeds under a qualified employer plan or a contract purchased under such a plan. For
details, see Pub. 970.
Qualified higher education expenses.
Qualified higher education expenses
generally include tuition, fees, room and
board, and related expenses such as
books and supplies. The expenses must
be for education in a degree, certificate,

or similar program at an eligible educational institution. An eligible educational institution includes most colleges,
universities, and certain vocational
schools. For details, see Pub. 970.

.

al of personal property engaged in for
profit.
Line 24c

Line 22 has been reserved for future use.

Enter the nontaxable amount of the value of Olympic and Paralympic medals
and USOC prize money reported on
line 8m.

Line 23

Line 24d

Archer MSA Deduction
See Form 8853.

Enter reforestation amortization and expenses (see Pub. 535).

Lines 24a through 24z

Line 24e

Line 22

Line 24a
Jury duty pay. Enter your jury duty
pay if you gave the pay to your employer because your employer paid your salary while you served on the jury.
Line 24b
Enter the deductible expenses related to
income reported on line 8l from the rent-

-93-

Enter repayment of supplemental unemployment benefits under the Trade Act
of 1974 (see Pub. 525).
Line 24f
Enter contributions to section 501(c)(18)
(D) pension plans (see Pub. 525).
Line 24g
Enter contributions by certain chaplains
to section 403(b) plans (see Pub. 517).

Line 24h
Enter attorney fees and court costs for
actions involving certain unlawful discrimination claims, but only to the extent of gross income from such actions
(see Pub. 525).
Line 24i
Enter attorney fees and court costs you
paid in connection with an award from
the IRS for information you provided
that helped the IRS detect tax law violations, up to the amount of the award includible in your gross income.
Line 24j
Enter the housing deduction from Form
2555.
Line 24k
Enter excess deductions of section 67(e)
expenses from Schedule K-1 (Form

1041), box 11, code A. See the Instructions for Schedule K-1 (Form 1041).
Line 24z
Use line 24z to report any adjustments
not reported elsewhere. List the type and
amount of the adjustment.
Form 1099-K loss reporting. If you
sold a personal item at a loss and you
did not report the loss on Form 8949,
enter the amount of the sale proceeds
from Form 1099-K on line 24z that you
reported on line 8z. In the entry space
next to line 24z write “Form 1099-K
Personal Item Sold at a Loss” and also
enter the amount of the sale proceeds.
For example, you bought a couch for
$1,000 and sold it through a third-party
vendor for $700, which was reported on
your Form 1099-K. On line 24z you
would enter $700 and in the entry space
next to line 24z you would write “Form
1099-K Personal Item Sold at a Loss $700.” See the instructions for line 8z.

-94-

If you sold more than one per-

TIP sonal item at a loss or received
more than one Form 1099-K
for personal items you sold at a loss,
and you entered the total amount of sale
proceeds on line 8z, you should also enter the total amount of sale proceeds on
line 24z.
Incorrect Form 1099-K. If you received a Form 1099-K that shows payments you didn't receive or is otherwise
incorrect and you can't get it corrected,
enter the amount on line 24z that you reported on line 8z. In the entry space next
to line 24z write “Incorrect Form
1099-K” and also enter the amount that
was incorrectly reported to you. For example, if you received a Form 1099-K
that incorrectly showed $800 of payments to you, you would enter $800 on
line 24z and in the entry space next to
line 24z you would write “Incorrect
Form 1099-K - $800.” See the instructions for line 8z.

Instructions for Schedule 2
Additional Taxes
General Instructions
Use Schedule 2 if you have additional
taxes that can’t be entered directly on
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR.
Include the amount on Schedule 2,
line 3, in the total on Form 1040,
1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 17.
Enter the amount on Schedule 2,
line 21, on Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 23; or 1040-NR, line 23b.

Specific Instructions
Line 1
Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT)
Alternative minimum tax (AMT) exemption amount increased. The AMT
exemption amount is increased to
$75,900 ($118,100 if married filing
jointly or qualifying surviving spouse;
$59,050 if married filing separately).
The income levels at which the AMT
exemption begins to phase out has increased to $539,900 ($1,079,800 if married filing jointly or qualifying surviving
spouse).
If you aren't sure whether you owe
the AMT, complete the Worksheet To
See if You Should Fill in Form 6251.
Exception. Fill in Form 6251 instead of
using the worksheet if you claimed or
received any of the following items.
• Accelerated depreciation.
• Tax-exempt interest from private
activity bonds.
• Intangible drilling, circulation, research, experimental, or mining costs.
• Amortization of pollution-control
facilities or depletion.
• Income or (loss) from tax-shelter
farm activities, passive activities, partnerships, S corporations, or activities for
which you aren't at risk.
• Income from long-term contracts
not figured using the percentage-of-completion method.

• Investment interest expense reported on Form 4952.
• Net operating loss deduction.
• Alternative minimum tax adjustments from an estate, trust, electing
large partnership, or cooperative.
• Section 1202 exclusion.
• Stock by exercising an incentive
stock option and you didn't dispose of
the stock in the same year.
• Any general business credit claimed on Form 3800 if either line 6 (in Part
I) or line 25 of Form 3800 is more than
zero.
• Qualified electric vehicle credit.
• Alternative fuel vehicle refueling
property tax.
• Credit for prior year minimum tax.
• Foreign tax credit.
• Net qualified disaster loss and you
are reporting your standard deduction on
Schedule A, line 16. See the instructions
for Form 4684 for more information.
For help with the alternative minimum tax, go to IRS.gov/AMT.

your coverage and any advance credit
payments. If the advance credit payments were more than the premium tax
credit you can claim, the amount you
must repay will be shown on Form
8962, line 29. Enter that amount, if any,
on line 2.
You may have to repay excess advance payments of the premium tax
credit even if someone else enrolled
you, your spouse, or your dependent in
Marketplace coverage. In that case, another individual may have received the
Form 1095-A for the coverage. You
may also have to repay excess advance
payments of the premium tax credit if
you enrolled an individual in coverage
through the Marketplace, you don’t
claim the individual as a dependent on
your return, and no one else claims that
individual as a dependent. For more information, see the Instructions for Form
8962.

Line 2

Unreported Social Security and
Medicare Tax From Form 4137

Excess Advance Premium Tax
Credit Repayment
If you have excess advance premium tax credit (APTC) repayCAUTION ments, go to IRS.gov/Form8962
for more information.

!

The premium tax credit helps pay
premiums for health insurance purchased from the Marketplace. Eligible
individuals may have advance payments
of the premium tax credit paid on their
behalf directly to the insurance company. If you, your spouse with whom you
are filing a joint return, or your dependent was enrolled in coverage purchased
from the Marketplace and advance payments of the premium tax credit were
made for the coverage, complete Form
8962 to reconcile (compare) the advance
payments with your premium tax credit.
You (or whoever enrolled you) should
have received Form 1095-A from the
Marketplace with information about

-95-

Line 5

Enter the total of any taxes from Form
4137.
If you received tips of $20 or more in
any month and you didn't report the full
amount to your employer, you must pay
the social security and Medicare or railroad retirement (RRTA) tax on the unreported tips.
Don’t include the value of any noncash tips, such as tickets or passes. You
don’t pay social security and Medicare
taxes or RRTA tax on these noncash
tips.
To figure the social security and
Medicare tax, use Form 4137. If you
owe RRTA tax, contact your employer.
Your employer will figure and collect
the RRTA tax.

Worksheet To See if You Should Fill in Form 6251—Schedule 2, Line 1
Before you begin:

Be sure you have read the Exception in the instructions for this line to see if you must fill in Form 6251 instead of
using this worksheet.

1. Are you filing Schedule A?
No.

Skip lines 1 and 2; subtract Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 13, or Form 1040-NR, line 13a, from Form
1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 11, and enter the result on line 3 and go to line 4.

Yes.

Enter the amount from Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.

2. Enter the amount from Schedule A, line 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

3. Add lines 1 and 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

4. Enter any tax refund from Schedule 1, lines 1 and 8z . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

5. Subtract line 4 from line 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

6. Enter the amount shown below for your filing status.

• Single or head of household—$75,900
• Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse—$118,100
• Married filing separately—$59,050

. . . . . . . . . . . 6.

7. Is the amount on line 5 more than the amount on line 6?
No.
Yes.

STOP

Don’t complete the rest of this worksheet. You don’t owe alternative minimum
tax and don’t need to fill out Form 6251. Leave Schedule 2, line 1, blank.
Subtract line 6 from line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

8. Enter the amount shown below for your filing status.

• Single or head of household—$539,900
• Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse—$1,079,800
• Married filing separately—$539,900

. . . . . . . . . . . 8.

9. Is the amount on line 5 more than the amount on line 8?
No.

Enter -0-. Skip line 10. Enter on line 11 the amount from line 7, and go to line 12.

Yes.

Subtract line 8 from line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.

10. Multiply line 9 by 25% (0.25) and enter the smaller of the result or line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.
11. Add lines 7 and 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.
12. Is the amount on line 11 more than $206,100 ($103,050 if married filing separately)?
Yes.
No.

STOP

Fill in Form 6251 to see if you owe the alternative minimum tax.

Multiply line 11 by 26% (0.26) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.

13. Add Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 16 (minus any tax from Form 4972), and Schedule 2, line 2. (If you used
Schedule J to figure your tax on the entry space on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 16, refigure that tax
without using Schedule J before including it in this calculation) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.
Next. Is the amount on line 12 more than the amount on line 13?
Yes.

Fill in Form 6251 to see if you owe the alternative minimum tax.

No.

You don’t owe alternative minimum tax and don’t need to fill out Form 6251. Leave Schedule 2, line 1, blank.

-96-

You may be charged a penalty
equal to 50% of the social seCAUTION curity and Medicare or RRTA
tax due on tips you received but didn't
report to your employer.

!

Line 6
Unreported Social Security and
Medicare Tax From Form 8919
Enter the total of any taxes from Form
8919.
If you are an employee who received
wages from an employer who didn't
withhold social security and Medicare
tax from your wages, use Form 8919 to
figure your share of the unreported tax.
Include on line 6 the amount from
line 13 of Form 8919. Include the
amount from line 6 of Form 8919 on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1g.

Line 8
Additional Tax on IRAs, Other
Qualified Retirement Plans, etc.
If any of the following apply, see Form
5329 and its instructions to find out if
you owe this tax and if you must file
Form 5329. Also see Form 5329 and its
instructions for definitions of the terms
used here.
1. You received an early distribution
from (a) an IRA or other qualified retirement plan, (b) an annuity, or (c) a modified endowment contract entered into after June 20, 1988, and the total distribution wasn't rolled over.
2. Excess contributions were made
to your IRA, Coverdell education savings account (ESA), Archer MSA,
health savings account (HSA), or ABLE
account.
3. You received a taxable distribution from a Coverdell ESA, qualified
tuition program, or ABLE account.
4. You didn't take the minimum required distribution from your IRA or
other qualified retirement plan by April
1 of the year following the year you
reached age 72.
Exception. If only item (1) applies and
distribution code 1 is correctly shown in
box 7 of all your Forms 1099-R, you
don’t have to file Form 5329. Instead,
multiply the taxable amount of the dis-

tribution by 10% (0.10) and enter the result on line 8. The taxable amount of the
distribution is the part of the distribution
you reported on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 4b or 5b, or on Form
4972. Also check the box on line 8 to indicate that you don’t have to file Form
5329. But you must file Form 5329 if
distribution code 1 is incorrectly shown
in box 7 of Form 1099-R or you qualify
for an exception, such as the exceptions
for qualified medical expenses, qualified
higher education expenses, qualified
first-time homebuyer distributions, or a
qualified reservist distribution.

Line 9
Household Employment Taxes
Enter the household employment taxes
you owe for having a household employee. If any of the following apply,
see Schedule H and its instructions to
find out if you owe these taxes.
1. You paid any one household employee (defined below) cash wages of
$2,400 or more in 2022. Cash wages include wages paid by check, money order, etc. But don’t count amounts paid to
an employee who was under age 18 at
any time in 2022 and was a student.
2. You withheld federal income tax
during 2022 at the request of any household employee.
3. You paid total cash wages of
$1,000 or more in any calendar quarter
of 2021 or 2022 to household employees.
Any person who does household work is
a household employee if you can control
what will be done and how it will be
done. Household work includes work
done in or around your home by babysitters, nannies, health aides, housekeepers,
yard workers, and similar domestic
workers.

Line 10
First-Time Homebuyer Credit
Repayment
Enter the first-time homebuyer credit
you have to repay if you bought the
home in 2008.
If you bought the home in 2008 and
owned and used it as your main home
for all of 2022, you can enter your 2022

-97-

repayment on this line without attaching
Form 5405.
See the Form 5405 instructions for
details and for exceptions to the repayment rule.

Line 11
Additional Medicare Tax
See Form 8959 and its instructions if the
total of your 2022 wages and any
self-employment income was more than:
• $125,000 if married filing separately;
• $250,000 if married filing jointly;
or
• $200,000 if single, head of household, or qualifying surviving spouse.
Also see Form 8959 if you had railroad
retirement (RRTA) compensation that
was more than the amount just listed
that applies to you.
If you are married filing jointly and
either you or your spouse had wages or
RRTA compensation of more than
$200,000, your employer may have
withheld Additional Medicare Tax even
if you don’t owe the tax. In that case,
you may be able to get a refund of the
tax withheld. See the Instructions for
Form 8959 to find out how to report the
withheld tax on Form 8959.

Line 12
Net Investment Income Tax
See Form 8960 and its instructions if the
amount on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 11, is more than:
• $125,000 if married filing separately,
• $250,000 if married filing jointly
or qualifying surviving spouse, or
• $200,000 if single or head of
household.
If you file Form 2555, see Form 8960
and its instructions if the amount on
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR,
line 11, is more than:
• $13,000 if married filing separately,
• $138,000 if married filing jointly
or qualifying surviving spouse, or
• $88,000 if single or head of household.

Line 13
Uncollected social security and Medicare or RRTA tax on tips or
group-term life insurance. This tax
should be shown in box 12 of Form W-2
with codes A and B or M and N.

Line 14
Interest on Tax Due on
Installment Income From the Sale
of Certain Residential Lots and
Timeshares
Enter interest on tax due on installment
income from the sale of certain residential lots and timeshares under section
453(l)(3).

Line 15
Interest on the Deferred Tax on
Gain From Certain Installment
Sales With a Sales Price Over
$150,000
Enter interest on the deferred tax on gain
from certain installment sales with a
sales price over $150,000 under section
453A(c).

Line 16
Recapture of Low-Income
Housing Credit
See Form 8611 for more information.

Lines 17a Through 17z
Other Additional Taxes
Line 17a. Recapture of the following
credits.
1. Investment credit (see Form
4255). Identify as “ICR.”
2. Indian employment credit (see
Form 8845). Identify as “IECR.”
3. New markets credit (see Form
8874). Identify as “NMCR.”
4. Credit for employer-provided
childcare facilities (see Form 8882).
Identify as “ECCFR.”
5. Alternative motor vehicle credit
(see
Form
8910).
Identify
as
“AMVCR.”
6. Alternative fuel vehicle refueling
property credit (see Form 8911). Identify as “ARPCR.”

7. Qualified plug-in electric drive
motor vehicle credit (see Form 8936).
Identify as “8936R.”
Line 17b. If you sold your home in
2022 and it was financed (in whole or in
part) from the proceeds of any tax-exempt qualified mortgage bond or you
claimed the mortgage interest credit, you
may owe a recapture tax on the mortgage subsidy. See Form 8828.
Line 17c. Enter any additional tax on
health savings account (HSA) distributions you received from Form 8889,
line 17b. See Form 8889, Part II.
Line 17d. Enter any additional tax for
failure to remain an eligible individual
during the testing period from Form
8889, line 21. See Form 8889, Part III.
Line 17e. Enter any additional tax on
Archer MSA distributions from Form
8853, line 9b. See Form 8853.
Line 17f. Enter any additional tax on
Medicare Advantage MSA distributions
from Form 8853, line 13b. See Form
8853.
Line 17g. Enter any additional tax on
recapture of a charitable contribution deduction relating to a fractional interest in
tangible personal property. See Pub. 526
for more information.
Line 17h. Enter any additional tax on
income you received from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan that
fails to meet the requirements of section
409A. This income should be shown in
box 12 of Form W-2 with code Z, or in
box 15 of Form 1099-MISC. The tax is
20% of the amount required to be included in income plus an interest amount
determined under section 409A(a)(1)(B)
(ii). See section 409A(a)(1)(B) for details.
Line 17i. Enter any additional tax on
compensation you received from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan
described in section 457A if the compensation would have been includible in
your income in an earlier year except
that the amount wasn't determinable until 2022. The tax is 20% of the amount
required to be included in income plus
an interest amount determined under

-98-

section 457A(c)(2). See section 457A
for details.
Line 17j. Enter any Section 72(m)(5)
excess benefits tax. See Pub. 560 for
more information.
Line 17k. If you received an excess
parachute payment (EPP), you must pay
a 20% tax on it. This tax should be
shown in box 12 of Form W-2 with code
K. If you received a Form 1099-MISC,
the tax is 20% of the EPP shown in
box 14. Enter this amount on line 17k.
Line 17l. Enter any tax on accumulation distribution of trusts. See Form
4970 for more information.
Line 17m. Enter any excise tax on insider stock compensation from an expatriated corporation. See section 4985.
Line 17n. Enter any look-back interest
under section 167(g) or 460(b). See
Form 8697 or 8866 for more information.
Line 17o. Enter any tax on non-effectively connected income for any part of
the year you were a nonresident alien.
See the Instructions for Form 1040-NR
for more information.
Line 17p. Enter any interest amount
from Form 8621, line 16f, relating to
distributions from, and dispositions of,
stock of a section 1291 fund.
Line 17q. Enter any interest amount
from Form 8621, line 24.
Line 17z Use line 17z to report any taxes not reported elsewhere on your return
or other schedules. List the type and
amount of tax.
Other taxes to be listed include the
following.
Form 8978 adjustment. Complete the
Negative Form 8978 Adjustment Worksheet—Schedule 2 (Line 17z) if you are
filing Form 8978 and completed the
worksheet in the Schedule 3, line 6l, instructions and the amount on line 3 of
that worksheet is negative.

Negative Form 8978 Adjustment Worksheet—Schedule 2 (Line 17z)
Complete this worksheet if you completed line 3 on the Negative Form 8978 Adjustment Worksheet in the Schedule 3,
line 6l, instructions.
1. Enter the sum of any chapter 1 taxes* (other than your negative Form 8978 adjustment) reported in Part II of
Schedule 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Enter as a positive number the negative amount from line 3 of the Negative Form 8978 Adjustment Worksheet in
the Schedule 3, line 6l, instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Is the amount on line 1 more than the amount on line 2?
Yes.

1.
2.

List the type (Form 8978 ADJ) and the amount from line 2 as a negative number (in parentheses) on line 17z.

List the type (Form 8978 ADJ) and the amount from line 1 as a negative number (in parentheses) on line 17z.
No.
Combine this amount with any other amounts reported on line 17z to complete the line 17z entry space.
* Chapter 1 taxes include taxes from sections 1 through 1400Z-2 of the Code, as well as certain amounts the Code treats as chapter 1 taxes.
Generally, this does not include amounts reported on Schedule 2, lines 4, 7, 9, 11–13, 17k–17m, or 17z (other than chapter 1 taxes).

-99-

Instructions for Schedule 3
Additional Credits and Payments
General Instructions
Use Schedule 3 if you have nonrefundable credits, other than the child tax credit
or the credit for other dependents, or
other payments and refundable credits.
Include the amount on Schedule 3,
line 8, in the amount entered on Form
1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 20.
Enter the amount on Schedule 3,
line 15, on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 31.

Specific Instructions
Line 1
Foreign Tax Credit
If you are a shareholder in a

TIP controlled foreign corporation
and made a section 962 election, see the instructions for Forms 1040
and 1040-SR, line 16, for the foreign tax
credit you figured on Form 1118.
If you paid income tax to a foreign
country or U.S. possession, you may be
able to take this credit. Generally, you
must complete and attach Form 1116 to
do so.
Exception. You don’t have to complete
Form 1116 to take this credit if all of the
following apply.
1. All of your foreign source gross
income was from interest and dividends
and all of that income and the foreign
tax paid on it were reported to you on
Form 1099-INT, Form 1099-DIV, or
Schedule K-1 (or substitute statement).
2. The total of your foreign taxes
wasn't more than $300 (not more than
$600 if married filing jointly).
3. You held the stock or bonds on
which the dividends or interest were
paid for at least 16 days and weren’t obligated to pay these amounts to someone
else.

4. You aren’t filing Form 4563 or
excluding income from sources within
Puerto Rico.
5. All of your foreign taxes were:
a. Legally owed and not eligible for
a refund or reduced tax rate under a tax
treaty, and
b. Paid to countries that are recognized by the United States and don’t
support terrorism.
For more details on these requirements, see the Instructions for Form
1116.
Do you meet all five requirements
just listed?
Yes. Enter on line 1 the smaller of
(a) your total foreign taxes, or (b) the total of the amounts on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 16, and Schedule 2,
line 2.
No. See Form 1116 to find out if
you can take the credit and, if you can, if
you have to file Form 1116.

Line 2
Credit for Child and Dependent
Care Expenses
You may be able to take this credit if, in
order to work or look for work, you paid
someone to care for:
• Your qualifying child under age 13
whom you claim as your dependent,
• Your disabled spouse or any other
disabled person who couldn't care for
themselves, or
• Your child whom you couldn't
claim as a dependent because of the
rules for Children of divorced or separated parents under Who Qualifies as Your
Dependent, earlier.
For details, use Tax Topic 602 or see
Form 2441.

Line 3
Education Credits
If you (or your dependent) paid qualified
expenses in 2022 for yourself, your
spouse, or your dependent to enroll in or

-100-

attend an eligible educational institution,
you may be able to take an education
credit. See Form 8863 for details. However, you can't take an education credit
if any of the following applies.
• You, or your spouse if filing jointly, are claimed as a dependent on someone else's (such as your parent's) 2022
tax return.
• Your filing status is married filing
separately.
• The amount on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 11, is $90,000 or more
($180,000 or more if married filing
jointly).
• You, or your spouse, were a nonresident alien for any part of 2022 unless
your filing status is married filing jointly.
You may be able to increase an education credit if the student chooses to include all or part of a Pell grant or certain
other scholarships or fellowships in income.
For more information, see Pub. 970;
the instructions for Form 1040 or
1040-SR, line 29; and IRS.gov/EdCredit.

Line 4
Retirement Savings Contributions
Credit (Saver's Credit)
You may be able to take this credit if
you, or your spouse if filing jointly,
made (a) contributions, other than rollover contributions, to a traditional or
Roth IRA; (b) elective deferrals to a
401(k) or 403(b) plan (including designated Roth contributions) or to a governmental 457, SEP, or SIMPLE plan; (c)
voluntary employee contributions to a
qualified retirement plan (including the
federal Thrift Savings Plan); (d) contributions to a 501(c)(18)(D) plan; or (e)
contributions to an ABLE account by
the designated beneficiary, as defined in
section 529A.
However, you can't take the credit if
either of the following applies.
1. The amount on Form 1040,
1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 11, is more

than $34,000 ($51,000 if head of household; $68,000 if married filing jointly).
2. The person(s) who made the
qualified contribution or elective deferral (a) was born after January 1, 2005,
(b) is claimed as a dependent on someone else's 2022 tax return, or (c) was a
student (defined next).
You were a student if during any part
of 5 calendar months of 2022, you:
• Were enrolled as a full-time student at a school; or
• Took a full-time, on-farm training
course given by a school or a state,
county, or local government agency.
A school includes a technical, trade,
or mechanical school. It doesn't include
an on-the-job training course, correspondence school, or school offering
courses only through the Internet.
For more details, use Tax Topic 610
or see Form 8880.

Line 5
Residential Energy Credits
Residential clean energy credit. You
may be able to take this credit by completing and attaching Form 5695 if you
paid for any of the following during
2022.
• Qualified solar electric property
for use in your home located in the United States.
• Qualified solar water heating property for use in your home located in the
United States.
• Qualified small wind energy property for use in connection with your
home located in the United States.
• Qualified geothermal heat pump
property installed on or in connection
with your home located in the United
States.
• Qualified biomass fuel property
for use in connection with your home located in the United States.
• Qualified fuel cell property installed on or in connection with your main
home located in the United States.
Energy efficient home improvement
credit. You may be able to take this

credit by completing and attaching Form
5695 for any of the following improvements to your main home located in the
United States in 2022 if they are new
and meet certain requirements for energy efficiency.
• Any insulation material or system
primarily designed to reduce heat gain
or loss in your home.
• Exterior windows (including skylights).
• Exterior doors.
• A metal roof or asphalt roof with
pigmented coatings or cooling granules
primarily designed to reduce the heat
gain in your home.
You may also be able to take this
credit for the cost of the following items
if the items meet certain performance
and quality standards.
• Certain electric heat pump water
heaters; electric heat pumps; central air
conditioners; and natural gas, propane,
or oil water heaters.
• A qualified furnace or hot water
boiler that uses natural gas, propane, or
oil.
• An advanced main air circulating
fan used in a natural gas, propane, or oil
furnace.
Condos and co-ops. If you are a member of a condominium management association for a condominium you own or
a tenant-stockholder in a cooperative
housing corporation, you are treated as
having paid your proportionate share of
any costs of such association or corporation for purposes of these credits.
More details. For details, see Form
5695.

Lines 6a Through 6z
Other Nonrefundable Credits
Line 6a. The general business credit
consists of a number of credits that usually apply only to individuals who are
partners, shareholders in an S corporation, self-employed, or who have rental
property. See Form 3800 or Pub. 334.
Line 6b. Enter any credit for prior year
minimum tax. See Form 8801.

-101-

Line 6c. You may be able to take the
adoption credit if you paid expenses to
adopt a child or you adopted a child with
special needs and the adoption became
final in 2022. See the Instructions for
Form 8839.
Line 6d. Enter any credit for the elderly
or the disabled. See Schedule R.
Line 6e. Enter any alternative motor vehicle credit. See Form 8910.
Line 6f. Enter any qualified plug-in
electric drive motor vehicle credit. See
Form 8936.
Line 6g. Enter any mortgage interest
credit if a state or local government gave
you a mortgage credit certificate. See
Form 8396.
Line 6h. You can't claim the District of
Columbia first-time homebuyer credit
for a home you bought after 2011. You
can claim it only if you have a credit
carryforward from 2021. See Form
8859.
Line 6i. Enter any qualified electric vehicle credit. You can't claim this credit
for a vehicle placed in service after
2006. You can claim this credit only if
you have an electric vehicle passive activity credit carried forward from a prior
year. See Form 8834.
Line 6j. Enter any alternative fuel vehicle refueling property credit. See Form
8911.
Line 6k. Enter any credit to holders of
tax credit bonds. See Form 8912.
Line 6l. Enter the amount from Form
8978, line 14 (relating to partner's audit
liability under section 6226). If the
amount on Form 8978, line 14, is negative, complete the following worksheet
to figure the amount to enter on line 6l.
If the amount on Form 8978, line 14, is
positive, see the instructions for Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 16.

Negative Form 8978 Adjustment Worksheet—Schedule 3 (Line 6l)
Complete this worksheet if Form 8978, line 14, is negative.
1. Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2.

Enter as a positive number the negative amount from Form 8978, line 14

2.

3.

Is the amount on line 1 equal to or more than the amount on line 2?

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Yes. Enter the amount from line 2 on line 6l
No. Enter the amount from line 1 on line 6l, and subtract line 2 from line 1* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
* Use this amount to complete the Negative Form 8978 Adjustment Worksheet in the Schedule 2, line 17z, instructions.

Line 6z. Other nonrefundable credits.
Use line 6z to report any nonrefundable
credits not reported elsewhere on your
return or other schedules. List the type
and amount of the credit.

Line 9
Net Premium Tax Credit
The premium tax credit helps pay for
health insurance purchased through the
Marketplace. You may be eligible to
claim the premium tax credit if you,
your spouse, or a dependent enrolled in
health insurance through the Marketplace. Eligible individuals may have advance payments of the premium tax
credit made on their behalf directly to
the insurance company. You (or whoever enrolled you) should have received
Form 1095-A from the Marketplace
with information about your coverage
and any advance credit payments. Complete Form 8962 to determine the
amount of your premium tax credit, if
any. If the premium tax credit you can
claim exceeds your advance credit payments, your net premium tax credit will
be shown on Form 8962, line 26. Enter
that amount, if any, on line 9. For more
information, see the Instructions for
Form 8962.

Line 10
Amount Paid With Request for
Extension To File
If you got an automatic extension of
time to file Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR by filing Form 4868 or by
making a payment, enter the amount of
the payment or any amount you paid
with Form 4868. If you paid by debit or
credit card, don’t include on line 10 the
convenience fee you were charged. Al-

so, include any amounts paid with Form
2350.

Line 11
Excess Social Security and Tier 1
RRTA Tax Withheld
If you, or your spouse if filing a joint return, had more than one employer for
2022 and total wages of more than
$147,000, too much social security or
tier 1 railroad retirement (RRTA) tax
may have been withheld. You can take a
credit on this line for the amount withheld in excess of $9,114. But if any one
employer withheld more than $9,114,
you can't claim the excess on your return. The employer should adjust the tax
for you. If the employer doesn't adjust
the overcollection, you can file a claim
for refund using Form 843. Figure this
amount separately for you and your
spouse.
You can't claim a refund for excess
tier 2 RRTA tax on Form 1040,
1040-SR, or 1040-NR. Instead, use
Form 843.

3. (

)

enter the refundable portion of the credit
for qualified sick and family leave wages you are eligible for due to reasons
related to coronavirus and related to
leave taken before April 1, 2021. The
amount of this credit is shown on Schedule H, line 8e. See Schedule H (Form
1040) and its instructions for more information on these credits.
Line 13d
If you are claiming a credit for repayment of amounts you included in your
income in an earlier year because it appeared you had a right to the income,
enter the amount on line 13d. See Pub.
525 for details about this credit.
Line 13f
If you elected to pay your net 965 tax liability in installments, report the deferred amount on line 13f. Enter the
amount of net 965 tax liability remaining to be paid in future years.
Line 13g
Line 13g has been reserved for future
use.

Line 12
Credit for Federal Tax on Fuels
Enter any credit for federal excise taxes
paid on fuels that are ultimately used for
a nontaxable purpose (for example, an
off-highway business use). Attach Form
4136.

Lines 13a Through 13z
Other Payments or
Refundable Credits
Line 13b
Qualified sick and family leave wages
paid in 2022 from Schedule(s) H for
leave taken before April 1, 2021. If
you paid household employment taxes,

-102-

Line 13h
Qualified sick and family leave wages
paid in 2022 from Schedule(s) H for
leave taken after March 31, 2021 and
before October 1, 2021. If you paid
household employment taxes, enter the
refundable portion of the credit for
qualified sick and family leave wages
you are eligible for due to reasons related to coronavirus and related to leave
taken after March 31, 2021 and before
October 1, 2021. The amount of the
credit is shown on Schedule H, line 8f.
See Schedule H (Form 1040) and its instructions for more information on these
credits.

Line 13z
Other payments or refundable credits. Use line 13z to report any other

payments or refundable credits not reported elsewhere on your return or other
schedules, including a credit under section 960(c) with respect to an excess

-103-

limitation account. List the type and
amount of payment or refundable credit.

Tax Topics
You can read these Tax Topics at
IRS.gov/TaxTopics.

List of Tax Topics

All topics are available in Spanish
(and most topics are available in
Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese, and
Russian).
Topic
No.
101
102
103
104
105
107
151
152
153
154
155
156
157
158
159
160
161

201
202
204
206
253
254
255
301
303
304
305

Subject
IRS Help Available
IRS services—Volunteer tax
assistance, outreach programs, and
identity theft
Tax assistance for individuals with
disabilities
Tax help for small businesses and
the self-employed
Taxpayer Advocate Service—Your
voice at the IRS
Armed Forces tax information
Tax relief in disaster situations
IRS Procedures
Your appeal rights
Refund information
What to do if you haven't filed your
tax return
Form W-2 and Form 1099-R (What
to do if incorrect or not received)
Obtaining forms and publications
How to get a transcript or copy of
your tax return
Change your address—How to
notify the IRS
Paying your taxes and ensuring
proper credit of payments
How to get a wage and income
transcript or copy of Form W-2
Statute expiration date—RSED |
ASED | CSED
Returning an erroneous
refund—Paper check or direct
deposit
Collection
The collection process
Tax payment options
Offers in compromise
Dishonored payments
Alternative Filing Methods
Substitute tax forms
How to choose a tax return preparer
Signing your return electronically
General Information
When, how, and where to file
Checklist of common errors when
preparing your tax return
Extensions of time to file your tax
return
Recordkeeping

Topic
No.
Subject
306 Penalty for underpayment of
estimated tax
307 Backup withholding
308 Amended returns
309 Roth IRA contributions
310 Coverdell education savings
accounts
311 Power of attorney information
312 Disclosure authorizations
313 Qualified tuition programs (QTPs)
Which Forms to File
356 Decedents
Types of Income
401 Wages and salaries
403 Interest received
404 Dividends
407 Business income
409 Capital gains and losses
410 Pensions and annuities
411 Pensions—The general rule and the
simplified method
412 Lump-sum distributions
413 Rollovers from retirement plans
414 Rental income and expenses
415 Renting residential and vacation
property
416 Farming and fishing income
417 Earnings for clergy
418 Unemployment compensation
419 Gambling income and losses
420 Bartering income
421 Scholarships, fellowship grants,
and other grants
423 Social security and equivalent
railroad retirement benefits
424 401(k) plans
425 Passive activities—Losses and
credits
427 Stock options
429 Traders in securities (Information
for Form 1040 or 1040-SR filers)
430 Receipt of stock in a
demutualization
431 Canceled debt—Is it taxable or
not?
432 Form 1099-A (Acquisition or
Abandonment of Secured Property)
and Form 1099-C (Cancellation of
Debt)
Adjustments to Income
451 Individual retirement arrangements
(IRAs)
452 Alimony and Separate Maintenance
453 Bad debt deduction
455 Moving expenses for members of
the Armed Forces

-104-

Topic
No.
Subject
456 Student loan interest deduction
458 Educator expense deduction
Itemized Deductions
501 Should I itemize?
502 Medical and dental expenses
503 Deductible taxes
504 Home mortgage points
505 Interest expense
506 Charitable contributions
509 Business use of home
510 Business use of car
511 Business travel expenses
513 Work-related education expenses
515 Casualty, disaster, and theft losses
Tax Computation
551 Standard deduction
552 Tax and credits figured by the IRS
553 Tax on a child's investment and
other unearned income (Kiddie tax)
554 Self-employment tax
556 Alternative minimum tax
557 Additional tax on early
distributions from traditional and
Roth IRAs
558 Additional tax on early
distributions from retirement plans
other than IRAs
559 Net Investment Income Tax
560 Additional Medicare Tax
Tax Credits
601 Earned income credit
602 Child and dependent care credit
607 Adoption credit and adoption
assistance programs
608 Excess social security and RRTA
tax withheld
610 Retirement savings contributions
credit
611 Repayment of the first-time
homebuyer credit
612 The premium tax credit
IRS Notices
651 Notices—What to do
652 Notice of underreported
income—CP2000
653 IRS notices and bills, penalties, and
interest charges
654 Understanding your CP75 or
CP75A Notice Request for
Supporting Documentation
Basis of Assets, Depreciation, and
Sale of Assets
701 Sale of your home
703 Basis of assets
704 Depreciation

List of Tax Topics
(Continued)
Topic
No.
Subject
705 Installment sales
Employer Tax Information
751 Social security and Medicare
withholding rates
752 Filing Forms W-2 and W-3
753 Form W-4—Employee's
Withholding Certificate
755 Employer identification number
(EIN)—How to apply
756 Employment taxes for household
employees
757 Forms 941 and 944—Deposit
requirements
758 Form 941—Employer's Quarterly
Federal Tax Return and Form
944—Employer's Annual Federal
Tax Return
759 Form 940—Employer's Annual
Federal Unemployment (FUTA)
Tax Return—Filing and deposit
requirements
760 Form 943—Reporting and deposit
requirements for agricultural
employers

Topic
No.
Subject
761 Tips—Withholding and reporting
762 Independent contractor vs.
employee
763 The Affordable Care Act
Electronic Media Filers—1099
Series and Related Information
Returns
801 Who must file information returns
electronically
802 Applying to file information returns
electronically
803 Waivers and extensions
804 FIRE system test files and
combined federal and state filing
(CF/SF) program
Tax Information for U.S.
Resident Aliens and Citizens
Living Abroad
851 Resident and nonresident aliens
856 Foreign tax credit
857 Individual taxpayer identification
number (ITIN)
858 Alien tax clearance

-105-

Topic
No.
901
902
903

Subject
Tax Information for Residents of
Puerto Rico
Is a person with income from
Puerto Rico required to file a U.S.
federal income tax return?
Credits and deductions for
taxpayers with Puerto Rican source
income exempt from U.S. tax
U.S. employment tax in Puerto
Rico

Disclosure, Privacy Act, and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice
The IRS Restructuring and Reform Act of
1998, the Privacy Act of 1974, and the
Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 require
that when we ask you for information we
must first tell you our legal right to ask
for the information, why we are asking
for it, and how it will be used. We must
also tell you what could happen if we do
not receive it and whether your response
is voluntary, required to obtain a benefit,
or mandatory under the law.
This notice applies to all records and
other material (in paper or electronic format) you file with us, including this tax
return. It also applies to any questions we
need to ask you so we can complete, correct, or process your return; figure your
tax; and collect tax, interest, or penalties.
Our legal right to ask for information
is Internal Revenue Code sections 6001,
6011, and 6012(a), and their regulations.
They say that you must file a return or
statement with us for any tax you are liable for. Your response is mandatory under
these sections. Code section 6109 requires you to provide your identifying
number on the return. This is so we know
who you are, and can process your return
and other papers. You must fill in all parts
of the tax form that apply to you. But you
do not have to check the boxes for the
Presidential Election Campaign Fund or
for the third-party designee. You also do
not have to provide your daytime phone
number or email address.
You are not required to provide the information requested on a form that is subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act unless the form displays a valid OMB control number. Books or records relating to
a form or its instructions must be retained
as long as their contents may become material in the administration of any Internal
Revenue law.
We ask for tax return information to
carry out the tax laws of the United
States. We need it to figure and collect
the right amount of tax.
If you do not file a return, do not provide the information we ask for, or provide fraudulent information, you may be
charged penalties and be subject to criminal prosecution. We may also have to disallow the exemptions, exclusions, credits,
deductions, or adjustments shown on the

tax return. This could make the tax higher
If you have suggestions for making
or delay any refund. Interest may also be these forms simpler, we would be happy
charged.
to hear from you. You can send us comments through IRS.gov/FormsComments.
Generally, tax returns and return infor- Or you can send your comments to Intermation are confidential, as stated in Code nal Revenue Service, Tax Forms and Pubsection 6103. However, Code section lications Division, 1111 Constitution
6103 allows or requires the Internal Reve- Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC
nue Service to disclose or give the infor- 20224. Don’t send your return to this admation shown on your tax return to others dress. Instead, see the addresses at the end
as described in the Code. For example, of these instructions.
we may disclose your tax information to
Although we can't respond individualthe Department of Justice to enforce the
tax laws, both civil and criminal, and to ly to each comment received, we do apcities, states, the District of Columbia, preciate your feedback and will consider
and U.S. commonwealths or possessions your comments as we revise our tax
to carry out their tax laws. We may dis- forms and instructions.
close your tax information to the DepartEstimates of Taxpayer
ment of Treasury and contractors for tax
administration purposes; and to other per- Burden
sons as necessary to obtain information The following table shows burden estineeded to determine the amount of or to mates based on current statutory requirecollect the tax you owe. We may disclose ments as of November 2022 for taxpayers
your tax information to the Comptroller filing a 2022 Form 1040 or 1040-SR tax
General of the United States to permit the return. Time spent and out-of-pocket
Comptroller General to review the Inter- costs are presented separately. Time burnal Revenue Service. We may disclose den is broken out by taxpayer activity,
your tax information to committees of with recordkeeping representing the largCongress; federal, state, and local child est component. Out-of-pocket costs insupport agencies; and to other federal clude any expenses incurred by taxpayers
agencies for the purposes of determining to prepare and submit their tax returns.
entitlement for benefits or the eligibility Examples include tax return preparation
for and the repayment of loans. We may and submission fees, postage and photoalso disclose this information to other copying costs, and tax return preparation
countries under a tax treaty, to federal and software costs. While these estimates
state agencies to enforce federal nontax don’t include burden associated with
criminal laws, or to federal law enforce- post-filing activities, IRS operational data
ment and intelligence agencies to combat indicate that electronically prepared and
terrorism.
filed returns have fewer arithmetic errors,
implying lower post-filing burden.
Please keep this notice with your reReported time and cost burdens are nacords. It may help you if we ask you for
other information. If you have questions tional averages and don’t necessarily reabout the rules for filing and giving infor- flect a “typical” case. Most taxpayers exmation, please call or visit any Internal perience lower than average burden, with
taxpayer burden varying considerably by
Revenue Service office.
taxpayer type. For instance, the estimated
We Welcome Comments on
average time burden for all taxpayers filForms
ing a Form 1040 or 1040-SR is 13 hours,
We try to create forms and instructions with an average cost of $250 per return.
that can be easily understood. Often this This average includes all associated forms
is difficult to do because our tax laws are and schedules, across all tax return prepavery complex. For some people with in- ration methods and taxpayer activities.
come mostly from wages, filling in the
Within this estimate, there is signififorms is easy. For others who have busicant variation in taxpayer activity. For exnesses, pensions, stocks, rental income, or
ample, nonbusiness taxpayers are expecother investments, it is more difficult.
ted to have an average burden of about 8

-106-

hours and $140, while business taxpayers
are expected to have an average burden of
about 25 hours and $530. Similarly, tax
return preparation fees and other
out-of-pocket costs vary extensively de-

pending on the tax situation of the taxpayIf you have comments concerning the
er, the type of software or professional time and cost estimates below, you can
preparer used, and the geographic loca- contact us at either one of the addresses
tion.
shown under We Welcome Comments on
Forms.

Estimated Average Taxpayer Burden for Individuals by Activity

Average Burden
Average Time (Hours)

.

.

All
Other

.

.

Tax
Planning

.

Recordkeeping

.

.

All taxpayers . . . . . . . . . .
Type of taxpayer
Nonbusiness*** . . . . .
Business*** . . . . . . .

Total
Time*

.

Percentage
of Returns

Type of Taxpayer

Form
Completion
and
Submission

Average
Cost
(Dollars)**

100%

13

6

2

4

1

$250

72%
28%

8
25

3
12

1
5

3
6

1
2

140
530

*Detail may not add to total time due to rounding.
**Dollars rounded to the nearest $10.
***You are considered a “business” filer if you file one or more of the following with Form 1040 or 1040-SR: Schedule C, E, or F or Form 2106. You are
considered a “nonbusiness” filer if you don’t file any of those schedules or forms with Form 1040 or 1040-SR.

-107-

Major Categories of Federal Income and Outlays for Fiscal Year 2021
Income and Outlays. These pie charts show the relative sizes of the major categories of federal income and outlays for fiscal year 2021.
Income
Outlays*
Social security, Medicare,
and unemployment and other
retirement taxes
19%

Borrowing to
cover deficit
41%

Corporate
income taxes
5%

Personal income
taxes
30%

Social security,
Medicare, and other
retirement1
29%

Excise, customs,
estate, gift, and
miscellaneous taxes
5%

Law
enforcement
and general
government
5%

National defense,
veterans, and foreign
affairs2
15%

Net
interest
on the
debt
5%

Physical,
human, and
community
development3
13%

Social
programs4
33%

* Numbers may not total to 100% due to rounding.

On or before the first Monday in February
of each year, the President is required by
law to submit to the Congress a budget
proposal for the fiscal year that begins the
following October. The budget plan sets
forth the President's proposed receipts,
spending, and the surplus or deficit for
the federal government. The plan includes
recommendations for new legislation as
well as recommendations to change, eliminate, and add programs. After receipt of
the President's proposal, the Congress reviews the proposal and makes changes. It
first passes a budget resolution setting its
own targets for receipts, outlays, and surplus or deficit. Next, individual spending
and revenue bills that are consistent with
the goals of the budget resolution are
enacted.

30, 2021), federal income was $4.047 tril- countries and the maintenance of U.S.
lion and outlays were $6.882 trillion, embassies abroad.
leaving a deficit of $2.775 trillion.
3. Physical, human, and community development: These outlays were for
Footnotes for Certain Federal
agriculture; natural resources; environOutlays
ment; transportation; aid for elementary
and secondary education and direct assistance to college students; job training; de1. Social security, Medicare, and posit insurance, commerce and housing
other retirement: These programs pro- credit, and community development; and
vide income support for the retired and space, energy, and general science prodisabled and medical care for the elderly. grams.
2. National defense, veterans, and
4. Social programs: About 22% of
foreign affairs: About 11% of outlays total outlays were for Medicaid, Supplewere to equip, modernize, and pay our mental Nutrition Assistance Program
armed forces and to fund national defense (formerly food stamps), temporary assisactivities; about 3% were for veterans tance for needy families, supplemental sebenefits and services; and about 1% were curity income, and related programs; and
for international activities, including mili- 11% for health research and public health
In fiscal year 2021 (which began on tary and economic assistance to foreign programs, unemployment compensation,
October 1, 2020, and ended on September
assisted housing, and social services.

Note. The percentages shown here exclude undistributed offsetting receipts, which were $124 billion in fiscal year 2021. In the budget, these receipts are offset against spending in figuring the outlay totals shown above.
These receipts are for the U.S. Government's share of its employee retirement programs, rents and royalties on the Outer Continental Shelf, and proceeds from the sale of assets.

-108-

2022
Tax Rate
Schedules

The Tax Rate Schedules are shown so you can see the tax rate that applies
to all levels of taxable income. Don’t use them to figure your tax. Instead,
see the instructions for line 16.

CAUTION

Schedule X—If your filing status is Single
If your taxable
income is:
Over—

The tax is:
of the
amount
over—

But not
over—

$0

$10,275

10%

$0

10,275

41,775

$1,027.50 + 12%

10,275
41,775

41,775

89,075

4,807.50 + 22%

89,075

170,050

15,213.50 + 24%

89,075

170,050

215,950

34,647.50 + 32%

170,050

215,950

539,900

49,335.50 + 35%

215,950

162,718.00 + 37%

539,900

539,900

Schedule Y-1—If your filing status is Married filing jointly or Qualifying surviving spouse
If your taxable
income is:
Over—

The tax is:
of the
amount
over—

But not
over—

$0

$20,550

10%

$0

20,550

83,550

$2,055.00 + 12%

20,550

83,550

178,150

9,615.00 + 22%

83,550

178,150

340,100

30,427.00 + 24%

178,150

340,100

431,900

69,295.00 + 32%

340,100

431,900

647,850

98,671.00 + 35%

431,900

174,253.50 + 37%

647,850

647,850

Schedule Y-2—If your filing status is Married filing separately
If your taxable
income is:
Over—

The tax is:
of the
amount
over—

But not
over—

$0

$10,275

10%

$0

10,275

41,775

$1,027.50 + 12%

10,275
41,775

41,775

89,075

4,807.50 + 22%

89,075

170,050

15,213.50 + 24%

89,075

170,050

215,950

34,647.50 + 32%

170,050

215,950

323,925

49,335.50 + 35%

215,950

87,126.75 + 37%

323,925

323,925

Schedule Z—If your filing status is Head of household
If your taxable
income is:
Over—

The tax is:
of the
amount
over—

But not
over—

$0

$14,650

10%

$0

14,650

55,900

$1,465.00 + 12%

14,650
55,900

55,900

89,050

6,415.00 + 22%

89,050

170,050

13,708.00 + 24%

89,050

170,050

215,950

33,148.00 + 32%

170,050

215,950

539,900

47,836.00 + 35%

215,950

161,218.50 + 37%

539,900

539,900

-109-

Index to Instructions
A
ABLE account 86, 97
Additional Medicare Tax 97
Address change 14
Adjusted gross income 31
Adoption credit 101
Adoption taxpayer identification number 19
Aliens 8
Alimony paid 89
Alimony received 83
Alternative minimum tax 95
Amended return 77
Amount you owe 58-60
Annuities 27-30
Archer MSAs 85, 97, 98
Artists 88
Attachments to the return 62
Awards 85

B
Bankruptcy cases, chapter 11 23
Bequests 87
Blindness 16, 34
Business income or loss 83

C
Canceled debt 85
Capital gain distributions 31
Capital gain or loss 31
Child and dependent care expenses, credit
for 100
Child custody 20
Child support 87
Child tax credits 17, 56
Child's requirement to file 9, 10
Community property states 23
Contributions to reduce debt held by the
public 77
Corrective distributions 25

D
Daycare center expenses 100
Death of a taxpayer 78
Death of spouse 78
Dependent care benefits 24
Dependents 17
Standard deduction 34
Direct deposit of refund 57, 58
Disability expenses 86
Disclosure, Privacy Act, and Paperwork
Reduction Act Notice 106
Dividends:
Nondividend distributions 26
Ordinary dividends 26
Qualified dividends 25, 36
Divorced parents 20
Dual-status aliens 8, 12

E
Earned income credit (EIC) 38
Combat pay, nontaxable 40
Education:
Credits 56, 100
Expenses 56, 100
Recapture of education credits 33
Savings accounts 87, 97

Educator expenses 87
Elderly persons:
Credit for 101
Standard deduction 34
Electric vehicles 101
Electronic filing (e-file) 7, 57, 58, 61, 62
Estimated tax 37, 60, 77
Excess deferrals 24
Excess social security and tier 1 RRTA tax
withheld 102
Extension of time to file 8, 102

F
Filing requirements 11
Filing status, which box to check 12-14
Foreign accounts and trusts 23
Foreign tax credit 100
Foreign-source income 23
Form W-2 25
Free tax help 78

G
Gambling 85
General business credit 101
Gifts 87
Golden parachute payments 98

H
Head of household 13
Health insurance deduction, self-employed 88
Health insurance premiums, credit for 102
Health savings accounts 85, 88, 97, 98
Help, tax 78
Homebuyer credit, first-time 97
Household employment taxes 97
How to comment on forms 106
How to get tax help 78

I
Identity Protection PIN 61
Identity theft 77
Income 23-85
Income tax withholding (federal) 37, 77
Individual retirement arrangements (IRAs)
Contributions to 89
Credit for contributions to 100
Distributions from 26
Nondeductible contributions to 26, 89
Individual taxpayer identification numbers 15
Injured spouse 56
Innocent spouse relief 76
Installment payments 59
Interest income
Tax-exempt 25
Taxable 25
Interest on taxes 81
Investment income, tax on 97
Itemized deductions or standard
deduction 31-34
ITINs for aliens 15

J
Jury duty pay 85

L
Life insurance 87

-110-

Line instructions for Forms 1040 and
1040-SR 62
Living abroad, U.S. citizens and resident
aliens 8, 23
Long-term care insurance 88
Lump-sum distributions 30

M
Market discount on bonds 25
Married persons:
Filing joint returns 12
Filing separate returns 12
Living apart 13
Medical insurance premiums, credit for 102
Medicare tax, additional 97
Mortgage interest credit 101
Moving expenses 88
Multiple support agreement 21

N
Name change 14
Net Investment Income Tax 97
Net operating loss 85
Nonresident aliens 8, 12, 15

O
Offsets 56
Other income 85
Other taxes 98

P
Parents, divorced or separated 20
Pay taxes electronically 58
Payments 37-102
Penalty
Early withdrawal of savings 89
Estimated tax 60
Others (including late filing and late
payment) 81
Penalty on early withdrawal of savings 89
Pensions and annuities 27-30
Premium tax credit 102
Presidential election $3 check-off 15
Private delivery services 9
Prizes 85
Public debt, gift to reduce the 77

Q
Qualified business income deduction 33
Qualified dividends 25, 36
Qualified dividends and capital gain tax
worksheet 36
Qualified retirement plans, deduction for 88
Qualified tuition program earnings 87, 97

R
Railroad retirement benefits:
Treated as a pension 27
Treated as social security 30
Records, how long to keep 77
Refund 56-58
Refund information 82
Refund offset 56
Refunds, credits, or offsets of state and local
income taxes 83
Reservists, expenses of 88

Resident aliens 8
Residential energy efficient property
credit 101
Retirement plan deduction, self-employed 88
Retirement savings contributions credit 100
Rollovers 26, 30
Roth IRAs 26, 89
Rounding off to whole dollars 23

S
Saver's credit 100
Self-employment tax:
Deduction for part of 88
Separated parents 20
Signing your return 60
Single person 12
Social security and equivalent railroad
retirement benefits 30-32
Social security number 14, 21
Standard deduction or itemized
deductions 31-34
State and local income taxes, taxable refunds,
credits, or offsets of 83

Statutory employees 25
Student loan interest deduction
Expenses 92
Surviving spouse, qualifying 14

T
Tax and credits 31-98
Figured by the IRS 33, 41
Other taxes:
Alternative minimum tax 95
IRAs and other tax-favored accounts 97
Lump-sum distributions 30
Recapture 98
Tax computation worksheet 75
Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) 7
Tax help 78
Tax rate schedules 109
Tax table 63-74
Tax Topics 104
Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) 4
Third party designee 60
Tip income 95

-111-

Tuition program earnings 87, 97

U
Unemployment compensation 85

V
Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Program
(VITA) 7

W
Wages 24
What if you can't pay? 59
What's new 6
When and where should you file? 8
Who must file 9, 10
Who should file 8
Winnings, prizes, gambling, and lotteries (other
income) 85
Withholding, federal income tax 37, 77

Your Rights
as a Taxpayer
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights
1. The Right to Be Informed

6. The Right to Finality

Taxpayers have the right to know what they need to do to
comply with the tax laws. They are entitled to clear
explanations of the laws and IRS procedures in all tax forms,
instructions, publications, notices, and correspondence. They
have the right to be informed of IRS decisions about their tax
accounts and to receive clear explanations of the outcomes.

Taxpayers have the right to know the maximum amount of
time they have to challenge the IRS’s position as well as the
maximum amount of time the IRS has to audit a particular tax
year or collect a tax debt. Taxpayers have the right to know
when the IRS has finished an audit.

7. The Right to Privacy

2. The Right to Quality Service
Taxpayers have the right to receive prompt, courteous, and
professional assistance in their dealings with the IRS, to be
spoken to in a way they can easily understand, to receive clear
and easily understandable communications from the IRS, and
to speak to a supervisor about inadequate service.

8. The Right to Confidentiality

3. The Right to Pay No More than the
Correct Amount of Tax
Taxpayers have the right to pay only the amount of tax legally
due, including interest and penalties, and to have the IRS
apply all tax payments properly.

4. The Right to Challenge the IRS’s Position
and Be Heard
Taxpayers have the right to raise objections and provide
additional documentation in response to formal IRS actions or
proposed actions, to expect that the IRS will consider their
timely objections and documentation promptly and fairly, and
to receive a response if the IRS does not agree with their
position.

5. The Right to Appeal an IRS Decision in an
Independent Forum
Taxpayers are entitled to a fair and impartial administrative
appeal of most IRS decisions, including many penalties, and
have the right to receive a written response regarding the IRS
Independent Office of Appeals’ decision. Taxpayers generally
have the right to take their cases to court.

Taxpayers have the right to expect that any IRS inquiry,
examination, or enforcement action will comply with the law
and be no more intrusive than necessary, and will respect all
due process rights, including search and seizure protections,
and will provide, where applicable, a collection due process
hearing.

Taxpayers have the right to expect that any information they
provide to the IRS will not be disclosed unless authorized by
the taxpayer or by law. Taxpayers have the right to expect
appropriate action will be taken against employees, return
preparers, and others who wrongfully use or disclose taxpayer
return information.

9. The Right to Retain Representation
Taxpayers have the right to retain an authorized representative
of their choice to represent them in their dealings with the
IRS. Taxpayers have the right to seek assistance from a Low
Income Taxpayer Clinic if they cannot afford representation.

10. The Right to a Fair and Just Tax System
Taxpayers have the right to expect the tax system to consider
facts and circumstances that might affect their underlying
liabilities, ability to pay, or ability to provide information timely.
Taxpayers have the right to receive assistance from the
Taxpayer Advocate Service if they are experiencing financial
difficulty or if the IRS has not resolved their tax issues properly
and timely through its normal channels.

Learn more at IRS.gov/TaxpayerRights

-112-

Where Do You Mail your return to the address shown
File?
below that applies to you. If you want to use
a private delivery service, see Private
Delivery
Services
under
Filing
Requirements, earlier.

TIP

Envelopes without enough postage will be
returned to you by the post office. Your
envelope may need additional postage if it
contains more than five pages or is
oversized (for example, it is over 1/4″ thick).
Also include your complete return address.

THEN use this address if you:

IF you live in...
Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina,
Tennessee

Are requesting a refund or
are not enclosing a check or
money order...
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Kansas City, MO 64999-0002

Are enclosing a check or
money order...

Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 1214
Charlotte, NC 28201-1214

Alaska, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas,
Department of the Treasury
Michigan, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota,
Internal Revenue Service
Ohio, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, Wyoming Ogden, UT 84201-0002

Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 802501
Cincinnati, OH 45280-2501

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Austin, TX 73301-0002

Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 802501
Cincinnati, OH 45280-2501

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Kansas City, MO 64999-0002

Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 931000
Louisville, KY 40293-1000

Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Austin, TX 73301-0002

Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 1214
Charlotte, NC 28201-1214

Pennsylvania

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Kansas City, MO 64999-0002

Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 802501
Cincinnati, OH 45280-2501

Arizona, New Mexico

Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia,
Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Minnesota, Missouri, New Hampshire,
New Jersey, New York, Oklahoma, Rhode Island,
Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin

A foreign country, U.S. possession or territory*, or use an Department of the Treasury
APO or FPO address, or file Form 2555 or 4563, or are a Internal Revenue Service
dual-status alien
Austin, TX 73301-0215

Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 1303
Charlotte, NC 28201-1303

*If you live in American Samoa, Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, or the Northern Mariana Islands, see Pub. 570.

-113-

